This is an environment of winners and
losers.
>> The sum total in our mind is that people
are cautious with regard to technology.
>> There is anticipation of disruption. AI
is creating a major disruption.
>> The real asset bubble is still in front
of us.
>> This is Bloomberg surveillance with
Jonathan Pharaoh, Lisa Abramowitz, and
An Marie Hordern.
Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. Good morning. For our
audience worldwide, Bloomberg
surveillance starts right now. Coming
into Thursday, after a two-day tech
route, Alphabet topping estimates and
announcing a monster year of capex
following a one trillion dollar wipe out
in software stocks over the past week.
Embattled private market firms are
lining up to report quarterly earnings.
Aries coming up this hour. Yeah, and it
just actually dropped. And what you're
seeing, you and we'll dig into the
numbers, of course, is that the earnings
per share came in lighter than expected
at $145 versus the estimated $168. Look,
we could break down all the numbers.
What people are going to be looking for
is a exposure to software, b ability and
willingness to continue to finance the
capital expenditure boom that we're
seeing from the likes of Google and Meta
and everybody else. Ultimately, we are
entering a new phase of the tax cycle
which hinges on the leverage and the
willingness to provide that from the
credit market.
>> Well, let's talk about the capex from
Alphabet. Check out these numbers. Up to
185 billion. So, take 26 and compare it
to the last 3 years is more than that.
It's absolutely ridiculous. And compare
it to something like this. Let's go
through the numbers in the UK. The
borrowing of the UK and the debt market
over the last 12 months, basically the
capex projected from Alphabet over the
next 12.
>> Yeah. what you said this morning uh
before the show is that ultimately some
of these tech companies are entire
countries unto themselves. We've seen
that with a market cap for example of
Nvidia itself which is essentially the
entire economy of a couple big European
countries. So you start looking at this
and you start understanding how this can
dwarf all other narratives. There is a
real question though with Google. Yes,
their free cash flow does finance a lot
of this, but not enough of it anymore
because suddenly the business model is
changing and that's what some of these
numbers really do highlight.
>> And these numbers contribute to a decent
slice of US GDP. A range of estimates
out there, but JP Morgan Asset
Management saying that roughly 40% of
the US GDP growth through the first
three quarters of last year came from
tech capex and those numbers are rising,
not falling. And that's why actually
there's a lot of consternation around
all of the spending because the spending
is going to the the GDP the US economy
but are the jobs still coming with it
and there is that disconnect you know
the president was asked about this in
NBC news interview apparently he doesn't
really use chat GBT or claude but he
said it's not going to take jobs and he
talked about the internet and past
revolutions we've had in this country
and how actually it's been a
productivity growth
>> it's an uncomfortable but relevant
question even if we had the jobs number
tomorrow morning got to wait a few days
but Let's say we got it. Kit chicks of
sock gen catching up with Vonnie Quinn
in the last hour. If we were to have a
jobs report on Friday, I wouldn't know
what to do with it. That's the problem
right now for market participants.
>> We got ADP numbers yesterday. No one
knew what to do with them. We've gotten
a lot of data and nobody understands
exactly whether it is good or bad or
what we're looking at because ultimately
you're seeing wage growth in certain
areas, not so much others. You're seeing
healthc care gains, you're seeing
education gains, but you're not seeing
uh places that typically fuel the
economy. What are we looking at? This is
an economy in flux and people are just
saying, you know what, we're going to
ignore it and do what? Buy gold, sell
gold, buy silver, sell silver. It feels
like there's a real turn amid the
uncertainty.
>> I can't keep up with silver. Last time I
looked, we were selling silver. That
might change in the next 5 minutes or
so. New schedule for the data. Okay, so
for payrolls, no longer tomorrow. That's
going to drop on February 11th. For CPI,
that report's going to come on February
13th. We'll keep going through the
schedule later this hour, but that's the
latest for jobs and for CPI. If you're
just joining us, welcome to the program.
Futures basically unchanged, but as you
all know, beneath the surface, some
vicious moves we need to get through
this morning. Coming up, we'll catch up
with Sema Sha, principal asset
management as AI fears rattle markets.
Ed Mills of Raymond James as President
Trump intensifies threats on Iran and
Mark Mahaney as Alphabet plans to double
capex this year. We begin this hour with
stocks struggling to stabilize following
two days of tech losses. Sema sha of
principal asset management writing AI's
productivity and economic benefits
remain more prospective than proven
underscoring the importance of
diversification. Sema joins us now for
more. Sema, welcome to the program and
good morning to you. The selloff in
tech, is it a problem for tech investors
or a problem for the market?
>> Good morning, John. Well, I mean, I
think it's a problem for for a bit of
both. I think the good news is that
there's other opportunities out there.
But before I go there, I mean I think we
have seen this build up, the shift has
been building up for the last couple of
months. I mean in Q3 Q4 of last year,
the narrative around tech um and AI was
really about uh questioning of
valuations about bubble the the capex
spend and now you're seeing it shift
even further so that there's not just
question about valuations but it's
actually the models uh can they actually
deliver which part of the market could
they cannibalize themselves etc. So
increasingly for investors who once upon
a time could see this as a one-way
trade, this is really about dispersion
and understanding not just balance
sheets but what is the model, how
exposed are they etc. So I think for
that reason it makes sense that
investors start to think about where
else can we go and the good news is is
that there it's a strong macro backdrop
not just in the US but globally and that
means that there are other opportunities
and certainly we are seeing clients
increasingly ask the question of where
else can we go? Well, let's start with
the US and then we can turn to the
international story. Equal weight
yesterday, all-time highs, bank stocks,
regional players, just short of a record
at the close. Bank of America, 5day
winner streak for Bank of America. What
is happening elsewhere in the market
away from the technology story,
>> right? So, we've seen this broadening
out of earnings growth. We've seen a
number of sectors really performing
well, and I think that's backed up uh
generally by this strong economic
backdrop that we're all talking about
all the time. um that resilience is
playing through in cyclicals but it's
interestingly you know we're also seeing
in areas like consumer staples so uh
clearly AI beneficiaries cyclicals in
areas of the market that maybe hadn't
performed well in the runup over the
last couple of years so I think there's
a number of narratives going on um and
so investors are increasingly wondering
you know which ones do we want to pick
sema I wonder how much this is technical
as well as fundamental yes there have
been some reasons for there to be this
incredible violent rotation that we've
seen under the surface for the past
couple of days. But how much of this is
leverage funds getting blown out or uh
some sort of massive technical shift
that's happening in algorithmic trading
strategies?
>> So, you know, there's always going to be
some kind of concerns um into that that
level of technicals and how much that is
playing out in the background. But to my
mind, Ash, a lot of this is driven by
fundamentals. I mean, there has been,
you know, just on the tech story, there
has been indiscriminate selling. So
there's going to be areas of the market
which are opportunities, but I think a
lot of this is a fundamentally driven uh
narrative shift which is causing the
shift to come through.
>> How much do you see this as continuing
to support the overall index? John was
pointing out that the equal weight of
the S&P 500 is uh had just reached a
record high. You're actually seeing more
gainers than losers. More than 350 of
the 500 members of the S&P 500 gained
yesterday, which is one of the biggest
going back. I mean, how much is this
sustainable if you don't have the
leadership of some of the tech giants,
>> right? The the arithmetic isn't isn't
great, right? We need almost those big
tech companies to be performing well and
delivering in order to get those big
gains. Is why the 7,000 level just seems
to be so difficult to pass for the S&P
500. um you know we should as you said
you know we've seen a lot of other
companies um doing fairly well but as
certainly as we're looking out as a as a
as a full year for the S&P 500 we're not
expecting very significant double digit
gains certainly less than what we've
seen in recent years because without
that tech drive the math is just more
challenging
>> sim you talk about how the true balance
remains in having that exposure
internationally where do you like
>> well I think there's opportunities
everywhere and I think as I said before
you know the global macro picture has
improved. We still think that the US is
one of the strongest. Um but certainly
in Europe across Asia there are
opportunities. So for example within
Europe um the valuations are slightly
more attractive than the US not very
significant they are slightly more
attractive but we've seen this pick up
in earnings growth. So areas that we
continue to like uh European banks,
European industrials, some areas there.
And then in Asia, what has been
interesting is that up till this point,
the interest in Asia has been again
about tech, but because it's been
trading at cheaper valuations. So I
think there's certainly some assessment
to be made there. But even from a China
macro picture, we're for example
expecting a bottoming out of the
property market wos um and that should
really feed through not to just the
China fundamental story, but across to
other parts of Asia. So and then of
course emerging markets given um the the
the generally the weak dollar story. So
we don't just have you focus on the US
and it's not about saying get rid of all
of your tech exposure by any means. It's
about that kind of balance and
diversification within the portfolio.
>> Well S let's stick on that word
diversification. If I'm buying South
Korean equities and the Cosby by the way
has been on a wild ride as you know over
the last week. Am I getting real
diversification or a different flavor of
the tech story?
>> Right. And and you're getting a bit of a
different flavor. So it's
diversification against US tech but it's
not really diversification against the
tech story. Now the Asian market, the
Asia tech market does look slightly
different. So there's going to be some
beneficiaries on there. But certainly we
want to be looking at other sectors as
well. So this is a really this is a big
story of not just um country, its asset
class and it's also sectors to try and
get that bigger picture but also to
really benefit from the cyclical
upswing. It's not just about avoiding,
it's also benefiting from areas that
should actually do really well in this
environment. See, as you know, software
in this country and worldwide has been
absolutely hammered. There's a real
margin profit risk that we can discuss.
I actually want to talk about the
financial risk associated with it and
the divergence we're seeing on a morning
like this morning between a company like
RS management and what they're telling
you about the business and what you're
seeing in the stock. The stock year
today is down by 15%. They've been
hammered recently along with the likes
of Blue, TPG, KKR, and Apollo. What
you're hearing from company management
is that we're seeing robust investor
demand across all three of our channels
continuing. We expect another year of
fundraising could match or exceed our
record levels from 25. What they're
saying is right now they don't have a
problem in the business. Do you see any
financial risk building?
>> Well, I think I mean at the moment look
investors don't want to touch anything
which has exposure to software and
unfortunately that is a problem for
these companies today. Um and that
indiscriminate selling means that some
of these are getting pulled down. There
are risks of course we know that just
looking at private markets that there
are risks lurking there. Um and suddenly
these are such big players that we want
to be kind of following that story
really carefully to make sure this
doesn't some become something which is a
real sustained selling pressure and then
become something which is a little bit
more systematic. Sema, as an investor,
does that make you more concerned about
going into say even the investment grade
corporate bond market considering that a
bigger and bigger proportion of it is
going to come from some of these
hyperscalers and some of these big tech
companies. I mean, we talk about how
there is a shift in the cycle and the
business model. It is being financed by
leverage.
So I think there are certainly some
concerns and just like we would do in
the public market space for credit we
would be trying to uh differentiate
between the sectors which are the
companies what are their exposures what
are their safety levels and I think that
that's exactly the same for private
markets that always has been certainly a
little bit more so than now I mean one
of the areas that we do like for example
is direct lending uh you know there's
typically higher quality you have more
exposure to things like utilities so I
think there are areas but just like in
public markets it really does require a
deep analysis is to know exactly what
you're getting into.
>> Hey Sema, it's good to hear from you.
Thank you. Sema Shad of Principal Asset
Management, big focus to the market over
the last week, in fact, the last five,
six months, the perspective and real
disruption you're seeing in the software
space. I mean, could talk about the
threat to margins and to market
multiples on that part of the stock
market, but it's also the financial risk
associated with that and the exposure
that many of these firms are carrying.
>> And Aries actually in their earnings
reported and laid out exactly how much
software exposure they had. They said
that software represented about 9% of
its total private credit assets. But
they also went on to say that all of
their software companies had continued
to increase their earnings faster than
the overall loan book. So again, it goes
to this question of do the fundamentals
justify the financial response.
>> There's a difference between what you're
hearing about the business, what they're
telling you is on the loan book and what
investors are worried about right now.
And that's the issue I think for a lot
of people that these stocks are being
used as proxies just to kick around the
story on any given day and the
management teams are coming out and
trying to tell you that actually they're
aware of the risks and this is how
they're building or not.
>> Yeah. Ultimately, how do you counter a
story that is in faith and belief? It
goes to the whole deepseek moment uh as
Amry was talking about yesterday. It
goes to this question of how much people
are just so worried about the disruption
of any given software in an instant in a
way that things are developing outside
of their uh their expectations.
>> Equity futures on the S&P just about
unchanged, but there's nothing boring
about this market over the past few
days. Let's give you an update on
stories worldwide this morning with your
Bloomberg brief is Vonnie Quinn. Hey
Vonnie,
>> good morning John. Yeah, technology
stocks tumbling for a second straight
day as the AI fueled sell-off from
software stocks spilled over into the
broader market. The NASDAQ 100 index
experiencing its biggest two-day route
since October. Weakness in software
stocks pointing to lingering fears of
disruption by newly released tools from
Anthropic.
Alphabet shares down in pre-market
trading after it reported fourth quarter
earnings. The Google parent exceeded
projections for quarterly revenue and
outlined an ambitious capital spending
plan. The tech giant is leveraging its
growth to build out the data centers and
infrastructure needed to lead in the AI
age.
And shares of Qualcomm ARM also both
lower in early trading. The
semiconductor company signals that a
shortage of memory chips will plump
growth in the electronics industry. A
shortage that is likely to persist with
Intel's CEO sharing suppliers have not
told him things will improve for the
next two years. And that is your
Bloomberg brief. John.
>> Hey Vonnie, thank you. Thanks for the
update. More from Vonyie in about 30
minutes time. Up next on the program, a
fresh threat towards Iran.
>> I would say he should be very worried.
Look, that country's a mess right now
because of us. We went in, we wiped out
their nuclear. Think of it. If we didn't
take out that nuclear, we wouldn't have
peace in the Middle East.
>> That conversation up next with Ed Mills
of Raymond James live from New York City
this morning. Good morning.
Equity
futures this morning bouncing back by
not even a tenth of 1% on the S&P 500.
On the NASDAQ 100, the biggest two-day
decline going back to August. We're
higher this morning so far at least by
0.16%.
Under Savanis this morning, a fresh
threat towards Iran.
>> I would say he should be very worried.
Yeah, he should be. As you know, they're
negotiating with us. And uh look, that
country is a mess right now because of
us. We went in, we wiped out their
nuclear.
>> I didn't want peace in the Middle East.
>> If I didn't take out their nuclear,
think of it. If we didn't take out that
nuclear, we wouldn't have peace in the
Middle East because the Arab countries
could have never done that. They were
very, very afraid of Iran.
>> They're not afraid of Iran anymore.
>> So, here's the latest this morning. The
president issuing a fresh threat against
Iran. Crude prices easing though as both
sides confirm talks this coming Friday.
Bloomberg's Tyler Kendall joins us now
for more. Tyler, welcome to the program.
I think a lot of this has been confused
over the past week. I want to get back
to basics. What's the objective for
these talks in the next 24 hours?
>> Yeah. Hey, John. Good morning. Well, it
depends on who you ask because it
appears that both sides have been trying
to shift the format of how these talks
are going to take place. We know that
Iran has now asked for these discussions
to be in a bilateral format focused
solely on its nuclear program. As
President Trump went on in that
interview to say that the US has caught
wind that Iran is trying to rebuild
after those strikes that we saw last
year. With that said, the US wants these
talks to expand beyond that. They want
this to also include Iran's ballist
ballistic missile program as well as its
support for proxy militia groups in the
region. And we heard from the Secretary
of State Marco Rubio yesterday who said
that those top issues have to be on the
table in order for there to be real
progress. Now, with all of this said, as
you heard, President Trump is
maintaining that all options remain on
the table even as we see diplomacy
moving forward for now. But I will point
out that our own analysts at Bloomberg
Economics assess that they see a US
strike on Iran as highly likely and that
these talks could really just be a
stalling tactic. John, with that said
though, they also say that while the oil
markets are watching this closely if the
US does follow through with military
action, that doesn't necessarily mean
that we will see a disruption when it
comes to oil flows because there is just
so uh much of a range of possibilities
on possibility on the table of what the
aftermath could look like including
whether or not Iran retaliates in a
symbolic way for example. So uh John
with this said at this point anything
could really happen. Natala Kendall down
in Washington. Tyler, thank you. To
build on that, Ed Mills of Raymond James
writing this. US Iran deal making
appears active and sincere, but the US's
demands will be a high bar for Thran to
clear and joins us now for more. Ed,
welcome to the program. Let's talk about
those US demands. What are they?
>> Well, they don't want any reactivation
of the nuclear program. Uh, as Tyler
highlighted, uh, can any support for
those proxy groups. Uh, President Trump
wants um kind of essentially probably
regime change, which is part of the high
bar that we think that is uh unable to
be cleared. Uh, here at Raymond James,
we consistently get questions about
this. Uh, but one thing that we have
highlighted consistently on a lot of
these high geopolitical risks out there
is that they have been coming fast and
furious, oftentimes unprecedented, but
often without a huge market impact. So
from a market lens, uh, this here kind
of is important, but maybe not as
important as other geopolitical events
related to Iran have been over the last
decade or two.
>> Ed, what do you think the tolerance the
patient has uh the president has right
now in terms of how long he's willing to
let the talks go? Because we have seen
the Iranians change the tenor of the
talks and also the location of the
talks.
>> Um, it is I think he's open, but I don't
think he has a huge tolerance here. Um I
think there is two things when we look
back to kind of the um kind of attack on
Iran last summer. Uh the president
outlined kind of some clear issues. Uh
he gave a deadline, the deadline passed
and he gave the order uh to strike. I I
think we could see the same thing here.
Um what I've seen kind of consistently
from this president though is that he
will only strike uh take a military
action if he thinks that he can have a
quick win. uh as well as the response is
not going to get him entangled into
something deeper. And so to me, that's
one of the big debates here. Is there
something that he can do here that he
views is that quick win that he can send
that message to the regime that he can
get that activity uh or that response
that does not involve the loss of US
lives. Uh if he has that on the table,
he absolutely takes that. If he doesn't,
that's where he might pause and give a
little bit more leeway to these talks.
>> Well, and what would you what would you
characterize as a quick win? because the
Iranians say that if there is an attack,
this could be a regional conflict, a
bigger one.
>> Yeah. So, I think that the two examples
that I would give is the um kind of the
assassination of Sulammani uh back in
2020 um where that was a clear kind of
concise military action. uh the attack
on the military or the on the nuclear
bases uh last summer. Uh you could
probably kind of look to that in a
pattern in terms of the way in which he
was able to capture Maduro uh without
the kind of loss of US lives. Uh he
looks at a lot of these military
engagements as is there something
specific that is significant but quick
that he can do and then we look back to
what happened after Sulammani after
those nuclear strikes. uh Iran did
respond, but they responded in a way
that was not escalatory, in a way that
was almost symbolic that allowed us to
move on. And I think that's actually
part of the reason why the markets have
not responded is they are used to
accustomed to this quick win attitude
that Trump takes to some of these
foreign policy engagements. As long as
that stays in place, that's where the
market does not necessarily react to
these uh events just yet. We were
talking to Terry Haynes yesterday about
how this is a president who can chew gum
and walk at the same time and deal with
international and domestic at the same
time. The international is just getting
more and more active even as we focus on
some of these domestic issues. We also
had that call between Xiinping yesterday
and President Trump. A number of
headlines coming out of it. What did you
take away from that? This trip by
President Trump to China in April. Then
the promise that by the end of the year
Xinping would be coming to the White
House.
>> Yeah. So it's basically our base case.
We had um last year kind of the meeting
between Trump and she uh in late October
which laid out kind of these two kind of
home and away uh meetings. Uh what we've
heard from our contacts is that
President Trump has sent a message to
his administration do not do anything
that is seen by China as escalatory or
punitive to them. Uh we look at the
tariffs that came out on semiconductors.
The tariffs that came out on critical
and rare earth minerals. Uh those were
essentially a punt. uh and the
semiconductor tariffs were a punt until
April. Uh what we expect as these two
leaders get together uh is kind of some
fanfare uh some announcements that sound
bigger than that they are. Uh but there
is generally a desire between both Trump
and she to contain this relationship
because they don't want the fight
because if we look back to last year as
we entered the year there was a lot of
escalation and some of this was mutually
assured destruction. They don't want to
go back to that. They don't want to go
back to the restrictions on rare earth.
that China doesn't want to go back to
some of the restrictions we are putting
on airplane parts and chemicals because
both economies cannot work unless the
other economy provides them with some
critical uh components to their supply
chains.
>> And does this mean that we can avoid new
tariff headlines for at least the next
four weeks?
>> I will never say that. Um the kind of
the reality is is that uh both Trump and
she like to escalate to deescalate. And
so my base case as we get closer to
those April meetings uh over this next
couple of uh weeks or months is we will
always have a new tariff headline as a
way of getting negotiating position. Uh
China's actually done this probably
better than anyone else as we go back to
those October meetings. Uh she kind of
announced a whole series of new uh
restrictions only to take those off
during meetings and and Trump was able
to say, "Hey, I got Trump, you know, she
to take all of these things off that he
didn't actually want to do. He just
wanted to have something that he could
negotiate away. So, I'm always telling
clients at Raymond James, watch for that
escalation because they want the
opportunity to deescalate during the
meeting and not actually give up
something, but sound as if they gave up
something.
>> Oh, diplomacy. Ed. Thank you, sir. Ed
Mills of Raymond James. So many of these
readouts are dressed up in diplomatic
language. I actually thought the Chinese
readout of that call was really
important. On the margin, that was a
more assertive Xi Jinping on the issue
of Taiwan. And I wonder if that's going
to be a feature of the talks in April.
>> This is what people are most concerned
about. That's why everyone's watching
this. That's why people are looking at
TSMC moving some capabilities over to
Japan. How much is China trying to say
get out of our territory?
>> And they've already have a day taunt
when it comes to trade. So for Xi
Jinping, this is really important,
especially what's going on with the
military. A massive purge in the top
brass in China.
>> Up next on the program, we'll catch up
with Mark Mahaney of Evercore as
Alphabet plans to double capex. Plus,
Yihira has your morning movers. Chip
stocks looking to cash in on massive AI
spending.
Headline just crossing the Blimbe
terminal. Bitcoin breaking below 70K for
the first time since November 2024.
Bitcoin down by more than 40% since the
highs last October. It's been a bit of a
crash and I think we can call it that
together with the moves in precious
metals. Not a great morning so far if
you're long silver or long Bitcoin.
We'll get to that in just a moment.
Equity futures on the S&P 500 just about
positive up by 0.05%
suffering. The S&P from a two-day tech
route, but elsewhere the equal weight
record highs. The regional bank stocks
in the last 24 hours very close to
alltime highs. I've talked about the run
that we've seen in stocks like Bank of
America, JP Morgan. The banks are having
a really decent run and it's not just
the regional players anymore. Pushes
back against this idea as the whole
market. I'm not sure anyone really
shares that idea right now. It's very
very much concentrated in software
stocks and that bled to some of the chip
names yesterday too.
>> This is a market of dispersion and
dramatic dispersion. Dispersion that we
haven't seen in many years and it's the
reason why you're seeing winners and
losers, you know, violent rotation away
from some of these tech stocks. What
this market is screaming is not the
collapse of a market or a collapse of an
economy. It is screaming. This is a new
phase of the tech cycle and this is a
new phase of the economic cycle. A lot
of these stocks that are doing well
signify economic growth is accelerating,
not decelerating.
>> ASM manufacturing was really strong
early this week. Services was okay, but
okay is good enough at the moment. And
the yield curves picking up on the
story. Twos versus 10's the steepest
since 22. 2-year bond yields this
morning. 355 10's 427 36. And I imagine
that's breathing some life into the bank
names too. To me, this is one of the
most interesting stories. And you, as
you just mentioned, you've got the
steepest yield curve in the United
States going back to 2022. How much is
this part of the rotation? And this
really stems from Kevin Worsh and his
nomination. This idea he would
potentially lower interest rates and
allow growth to take off on the long
end. How much is that fueling some of
this rotation that's under the surface?
Some people are talking about that.
>> What if they say rates doubbish and
balance sheet hawkish? Something like
that might speak to some of the move at
least. You like that? It's beautiful.
That's the yield curve. Okay, let's get
to precious metals. I don't know what
hand signal to do for that. Maybe it's
not good for TV. Silver down by 10% this
morning. Silver, even with this move, is
still up on the year by 10%. It has been
a wild ride for precious metals. Gold
this morning down by about 1.6%. People
want these precious metals to be the
haven that treasuries used to be. And so
much money is funneling in that you're
getting volatility that is almost
unprecedented and is likely to continue
just because there's so much interest in
an alternative to US treasuries, but
there isn't the same liquidity in some
of these precious metals.
>> All these market events building over
the past few weeks has been phenomenal.
Just fascinating to watch how it's
cascaded through financial markets
deleveraging in things like Bitcoin,
precious metals, software stocks, and
the market, the overall index on the S&P
500 still within a couple of percentage
points from alltime highs. Futures this
morning just about unchanged on the
S&Ps. We count you down to the opening
bell with your morning movers. Here's
Yahara Arnand. Hey yhara.
>> Hi John. We start with our big story.
Alphabet shares are falling 3.3% in the
pre-market as investors recoil at the
price tag of the AI arms race. Up to 185
billion is what it plans to spend this
year. That is double last year's level.
But reading through analyst notes, many
see this as strategic and even
encouraging to the AI story. But no
doubt it is an eyepopping number that is
taking time to sink in. But it is
welcome news for our next names. The
spending spree is lighting up the AI
chip makers. Broadcom up four and a
half% in the pre-market and it is
leading the gains and that is because it
is Google's partner when it comes to
TPUs, the specialized chips used to run
uh AI models. Nvidia also up 1 and a4%.
AMD up 1.4% catching a break after
yesterday's brutal 17% selloff. And we
end on Broadcom and ARM. Both stocks are
plunging in the pre-market after issuing
a warning about memory shortages hurting
the smartphone market as the chips get
increasingly diverted to AI data
centers. Qualcomm issuing a tepid
forecast saying that supply constraints
especially in China will lead to fewer
phones being made and that means costs
will be higher and demand might weaken.
ARMS also facing similar issues so its
forecast came in lighter than expected.
John
>> Yara, thank you. Thanks for the update.
More from Yhira in the next hour. On our
radar this morning, Alphabet exceeding
fourth quarter revenue estimates and
outlining an ambitious capital spending
plan. Google's parent company expecting
capex to reach as much as 185 billion
this year. Elsewhere, silver falling
sharply. A record-breaking run comes to
an end. The precious metal sinking as
much as 17% on the session. The latest
slide wiping out a two-day recovery with
the market grappling extreme volatility.
And President Donald Trump acknowledging
that Kevin Walsh knows his role as Fed
chair.
>> Does your new Fed pick understand that
you want him to lower interest rates?
>> Oh, I think he does, but I think he
wants to anyway. I mean, if he came in
and said, "I want to raise him." We
should.
>> If he said that, he wouldn't have gotten
a job.
>> He would not have gotten a job. No.
>> The president adding there is quote,
"not much doubt that the Fed will be
lowering interest rates."
>> Somebody could say, "Well, doesn't this
show that the Fed lacks the same
independence? Have you been listening to
President Trump all this time?" Of
course he would say that. He wants this
Fed to to cut rates and thinks that this
has been an incompetent Fed for not
cutting rates. The more the bigger story
is what we were just talking about the
yield curve and what that's saying,
which is that people believe that Kevin
War will cut interest rates. Longer
term, however, this could lead to higher
rates on the long end, especially if you
have quantitative tightening and that
ultimately is the question in markets.
>> Trump is just saying the quiet thing out
loud. Everyone knows that to get the job
in front of this president, you have to
be you have to show up as a dove. You
don't you can't show up as a hawk. I
think was also a little bit more
interesting what Trump said about the
Fed in general that might become a
problem when Kevin Worsh goes in front
of the Senate Banking Committee. He
says, I mean, in theory, it's an
independent body. So, Kevin Worsh is
going to get a lot of questions about
Fed independence. When he goes in front
of senators,
>> when when is he going in front of
senators?
>> We don't know when the DOJ investigation
to Jay Powell gets wrapped up. And the
president said this week he is going to
let the investigation continue to the
end. he's not going to get involved,
which means we could be here for months.
>> Tom Tillis isn't the only Republican on
the Senate Banking Committee who's
raising issues about this. Uh there have
been others also who have raised issues
and said that look, this is not
legitimate uh prosecution. So there is
more push back to the president building
under the surface.
>> There isn't a date on the calendar just
yet. Let's put it that way. Let's get
back to our top story on Wall Street.
Shares of Alphabet trading lower as the
hyperscaler plans to double capex
spending on AI. Mark Mahane of Everore
has an outperform rating with a $400
price target on the stock. I'm pleased
to say that Mark joins us now for more.
Mark, good morning. I just want to focus
on that number, $185
billion. How does a company spend $185
billion when for some countries that's
the budget, that's government spending?
Mark, how does a company put that money
to work?
>> I like the way you set that up. So, um,
they're doubling their capex spend from
last year. Uh about half of that is
going into servers and half of that is
going into um u u land uh dist um um uh
you know facings
etc property plant and equipment but but
half of it's just going to uh to uh to
servers. So uh this company has got very
aggressive uh AI expansion plans. Now
they do have lots of ways to monetize
this. uh they do have a cloud business
that uh grew uh almost 50% and the
backlog for that cloud business grew
100%. So that's a direct monetization
path very similar to what Microsoft and
AWS have, Amazon have. But it also has
other ways too as they continue to use
AI to improve their ads business. That's
search, that's YouTube. It is paying
off. You're seeing this acceleration in
search revenue growth. I mean they're
growing search faster now than at any
point in the last four years. And I
think in part AI's helped them do that.
It's helped them create a a better
search experience. Anybody who uses
Google will agree to that. You know,
over the last year or two, the Google
search experience has improved. And it's
also made the product, the platform
better for marketers. So, they've been
able to prove RO AI, you know, ROI, RO
AI. They've been able to prove that. And
they're asking investors to help them
double down on the bet. I think in at,
you know, we're going to shake around
here a little bit. That was an eye
popping number. You're absolutely right.
But I think a lot of investors are going
to give them the benefit of the doubt
because they've got a pretty good track
record over the last year.
>> But they don't have a track record being
a real estate company, Mark. And that's
kind of what I want to get into here.
They are now an asset heavy business and
they used to be asset light not too long
ago. So they don't have a history of
running the business this way. And what
I'm trying to understand from someone
like you who understands the inner
workings of an alphabet, how has this
company's changed the way it operates to
get to this position it's in at the
moment?
Well, I think the big change here, uh, I
guess over the last 10 years has been
the growth of Google Cloud. Um, and, uh,
this is still a minority of their of
their revenue. I, off the top of my
head, I'm trying to think, they're doing
like 70 billion run rate off of a
company that's doing um, you know, 200
300 billion run rate. So, whatever. It's
about a quarter of their revenue now
comes from cloud. Now, cloud is an
intense uh, capital intensive business.
Microsoft knows that. Amazon knows that
and Google is learning that too. So, so,
so part of it is that that the business
has changed and cloud is a much bigger
part of both its revenue and its
profits. They reached record high 30%
margins for their cloud business in the
most recent quarter. So, that's that's
probably one of the biggest changes. But
AI, make no doubt about it. In order to
really succeed at AI and at the
platform, at the size of the of the of
this platform, a Google, a Meta, an
Amazon, a Microsoft, you know, you need
an enormous amount of compute power to
uh to serve all the applications that
they have that over a billion users. I
think it's about a dozen applications
that they have that have over a billion
users. And um anyway, that's the those
are those are table stakes. Now, I think
they can get a good return on it, but
it's an extremely expensive proposition.
Genai has made um uh running these
business at scale with improvements much
more expensive than uh than traditional
search, but it's a dramatically better
product.
>> But Mark, just to build on what John's
talking about, it's one thing to look at
these companies as innovators of new
tech products. It's another to view them
as massive asset managers of sorts that
actually go out and choose winners and
losers in the infrastructure space in
exactly what types of compute will be
necessary. not tomorrow, not the next
day, but in two years, 10 years, when
you talk about what is necessary in
terms of rejiggering some of the chips
that that get older, how do you pick the
right management teams for this when
you're comparing say a Google versus a
Microsoft?
>> Well, it's wonderful that you've got uh
management teams with this much tenure.
I mean, um I'll give I'll give uh Google
a lot of credit on this. The very first
time I saw Sundar Pachai present at a
Google IO uh their you know their annual
uh developer conference this was eight
years ago um his his principal topic was
AI so Google's been um you know chasing
AI investing in AI deploying AI
throughout its platform throughout its
applications for many years now there
was a huge debate in the market a year
ago as to whether they'd missed the AI
train they were going to have their
lunch eaten by chat GPT that All of that
turn turn turn turn turn turn turn turn
turned out to create this wonderful what
I call DHQ dislocated highquality
opportunity for Google shares and
investors a year ago by the way I don't
think that's the case now there much
there are other stocks I prefer to
Google here I think at 30 times earnings
you know you're kind of at a peak
multiple so you you're you're a high
quality earnings compounder but I don't
think you're you're not a rerider from
here so the the the riskreward isn't as
attractive to on Google as it was at any
point in the last kind of two or three
years um but that said it's still you
know a high quality company and look at
generative AI requires a a a major step
up level in investment. You mentioned
chips. You know, one of the most
interesting things about Google is
they've fully integrated up and down the
tech stack. Now, they have their own
chips, TPUs, tensor processing units,
and that's given them a cost advantage.
So not only do they have the best uh
large language model, the best frontier
model out in the world arguably uh they
also have um you know they're there with
the they're there at the uh at the
application layer. They're there with
one of the best cloud uh services and
then now they the infrastructure
underneath it including the chips. I
mean that's that's one of the reasons
the stock is rerated.
Mark, it seems like you don't
necessarily agree with uh the argument
going forward that there is some sort of
uh I think that we might have lost him.
Actually, I think that he might have
frozen. Anyway, it's really interesting
to me that we're looking at a situation
where people are questioning any kind of
investment, John, right now with uh the
$185 billion being thought of as
negative when say two years ago that
would be viewed as a vote of real
confidence in the path ahead, especially
given the fact that they delivered
across the board. They had actually a
bonanza of an earnings report. Never
mind 2 years ago, 12 months ago, there
were people who were sitting around this
table questioning and we were having the
conversation that this company might be
dead, facing existential risk. And then
the next 12 months, it added $1.46
trillion in market cap in 12 months and
rallied by more than 60%. The turnaround
in this story at this company in the
last 12 months, I think has been amazing
and deserves its own case study. It's
not only surviving through fantastic
cloud revenue, but also their own
product. their own product has surpassed
expectations as well in a way that is so
different to the way we discussed this
company 12 months ago and this has
consequences for how we discussed the
story now in software stocks and Chris
Ferona thought did a fantastic job of
this of Strategus yesterday 12 months
ago Google's dead 12 months later it's
added $1.46 46 trillion in market cap
and some and I think we have to bear
that in mind when we talk about various
software companies being left for dead
as well this morning. That's the reason
why you see people say look this is a
time to make money right this is a time
to identify the ones that still have
staying power and have uh accuracy
levels that cannot be replicated by chat
GPT or by claude look going forward this
is a period of massive disruption people
can't imagine it going forward there's a
real question here of who the winners
and losers are it is notable that
spending more is not a recipe for being
rewarded in markets right now it might
be down the line now
>> but three years ago to Mark's point
Gemini I was having this code red moment
the way OpenAI is having that moment
right now. I would argue potentially the
biggest risk right now for alpha for
alphabet and the biggest headache is the
regulatory environment. You even had the
DOJ in some states this week coming out
and saying they don't really like the
remedies when it comes to Chrome and
they actually want more difficult
remedies placed on Google.
>> Have you seen the new anthropic
commercial?
>> I love it.
>> Taken on chat GBT.
So funny. I mean,
>> there you know,
>> it's expensive ad
>> kind of feels like what
>> communicating with that product feels
like at the moment.
>> Well, that's part of the problem and
that's part of the reason why Anthropic
is going to try to eat their lunch and
say, "Look, we're not going to have
ads." They're going to have ads, but if
you want your your personal advice
interrupted by ads, go for it. Question
is, how do you make money? And that's
going to ultimately become a problem
down the line.
>> Futures just about to change this
morning on the S&P 500. Let's give you
an update on stories worldwide with your
Bloomberg brief. Let's cross over to
Vonyie Quinn. Hey Vonnie.
>> Hey John. President Donald Trump warning
Iran's leaders the US could take
military action against Iran if it
doesn't reach a nuclear deal on its
nuclear program. The president saying
the Iranian foreign minister should be
quote very worried. According to a White
House official, the US and Iran still
plan to meet in Oman on Friday.
Meta reportedly telling staff members
its nextgen large language model known
as Avocado is quote its most capable
pre-trained base model to date.
According to the information, Meta sent
an internal memo saying it had already
completed pre-training, an initial phase
in the development of AI models.
A federal watchdog is investigating if
Nike discriminated against white
workers. The Equal Employment
Opportunity Commission probing if the
sportsware giants DEI objectives led to
decisions in hiring and layoffs that
unequally impacted white employees. Nike
is the biggest company to be targeted by
the agency for its diversity practices.
And that is your Bloomberg brief. John.
>> Hey Vonnie, thank you. Thanks for the
update. Up next on the program, AI
eating into business.
>> When you think about things like
software, for instance, is it a vertical
software or is it some low-level
horizontal software where it's easy to
change and therefore the AI could lead
to a big erosion in your business. Up
next, we'll catch up with Paul Goldberg
of Bloomberg Intelligence live from New
York City. You're watching Bloomberg TV.
The S&P 500 held back by a two-day tech
route over the previous two sessions.
Equities bouncing back by just a tenth
of 1% on the S&P. Likewise on the NASDAQ
100. On the Russell, small caps higher
by about a third of 1%. Under surveis
this morning, AI eating into business.
There's definitely more risk in certain
industries. There's no question that you
have to think about some of the lower
value IT services businesses. And when
you think about things like software,
for instance, is it a vertical software
that is sort of the system of record for
a business that is very hard to rip out
or is it some low-level horizontal
software where it's easy to change and
therefore the AI could lead to a big
erosion in your business? Private market
firms have been absolutely hammered over
the last week or so. Blue Ores, KKR,
we've all seen the moves, massive moves
lower, down by 10, 20% over the past
five or six months. Now we hear from the
management teams and I want to talk
about that right now with Paul Goldberg
of Bloomberg Intelligence. Paul, welcome
to the program, sir. We understand how
the stocks have moved. Can you walk us
through what the management teams are
saying about the underlying business?
>> Good morning, Jonathan. They're still a
little bit early. Blackstone actually
reported, you just had a clip of
Jonathan Gray. They actually reported
last week, so they didn't really talk
much about this subject at at a call. Uh
the rest of the calls are actually
starting this morning. Aries reported
earlier this morning. KKR literally just
crossed the wires. Um Aries made the
disclosure software is about 6% of their
assets uh total assets, less than 9% of
their um credit assets. They're the
largest credit one of the largest credit
managers. So they don't see the
particular risk there. They have been
investing heavily because it's a very
profitable and well cash flowed
business. So it's good for them in terms
of the alignment with the investment
portfolios. But they also always in
invest with a sort of a mode. So what
Jonathan Gray was just saying about the
low-level software versus highly
specialized software, this is usually
what they go after. something that has
data or a network embedded into those
software programs. And if they're
lending, it's usually the senior and
secured loans. So, those are safer
loans. They're more comfortable with
those investments.
>> Paul, this all makes a lot of sense. Why
are stock investors not buying it?
You've seen all of these stocks
absolutely hammered over the past year,
over the past six months. KKR coming out
just now reporting that they have total
operating earnings that exceeded
expectations. And yet you ongoing you
see this ongoing route. What will it
take for investors to be convinced?
>> I think more transparency private
private equity private credit they
inherently
private. They don't disclose enough
information. So the investors can't
watch the the valuations and things like
that day to date. So anything that comes
up as a risk uh always batters into the
stock. So if you go back three months,
everybody was worrying about
overinvestment in AI and these managers
are very heavily invested in the
infrastructure. So they were getting
hurt there. Uh meanwhile, you see the
asset inflows, organic growth in double
digits. You see fees and fee related
earnings growing in solid double digits.
M&A and IPO market is opening up. So
more realizations, more fees related to
those realizations coming to the
managers. So the environment is actually
somewhat better.
>> And Paul, what you're seeing is a little
bit of disclosure. We heard from Aries
earlier this morning that they have
about 9% of their private credit
portfolio currently in software related
stocks, 6% of their overall assets. I do
wonder uh whether any of the skepticism
among broader investors will crimp the
ability of some of these private credit
managers to invest and continue to
finance some of these ambitious projects
by the hyperscalers.
I really don't think so because they do
have the infrastructure and especially
when you talk to largest managers like
Arias, KKR or Blackstone, they the guys
who can do multi-billion dollar checks.
The smaller managers cannot and the
public markets often cannot offer the
structure that these managers are. So I
believe that they can actually provide
something unique for that market.
longerterm structures, asset back kind
of financing that you don't typically
get from a public market.
>> Hey Paul, good to hear from you. Paul
Goldberg there of Bloomberg Intelligence
on some of these moves we're seeing from
some of these names. Blueout's down 19%
year to date. KKR's down by almost as
much. These are 20% moves after they
were already hammered through much of
last year as well. The fears around
software are legit. People are worried
about margins there and profits. The
disruption is real, not just
perspective. And the next leg is to find
out who's got the exposure. What you've
heard from management teams so far this
morning, it's so far so good. I'm not
sure that's going to put these fears to
bed though because we talked about this
earlier. This bucket of stocks has been
used as a proxy to trade this story and
that's been the story of the last 6 to
12 months.
>> And that's the reason why it's unclear
what they could actually say in some of
these earnings call. I do wonder if
you're going to see a shift among
investors to prioritize liquidity after
having private credit and private assets
in general all the vogue. what you don't
know is what's punishing these stocks,
the lack of transparency. So suddenly
you have to wonder, do you end up with a
lot more transparency and private credit
starts to look that much more like
public uh counterparts?
>> And your last question to Paul was
fantastic in terms of if these companies
are doing so poorly in the software. Is
it going to mean that private credit is
not going to go out and go acquire or
invest in these software companies
because the push back they're getting in
their top line on their stock trading?
Coming up on the program, we'll catch up
with Tom Kennedy of JP Morgan Asset
Management, Chris Casso of Wolf
Research, and Jordan Rochester of
Missouo. The second hour of Bloomberg
Surveillance up next.
The US is in some sense unique. It
remains a very dynamic economy.
>> I think the economy, even though it's
not accelerating, it's still pretty
good. Labor market is soft. If you have
a job, the economy moves forward. We
think we're set up for a very strong
year of growth and that that will come
with it labor market strength. This is
Bloomberg Surveillance with Jonathan
Pharaoh, Lisa Abramowitz, and An Marie
Hordern
>> live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. Good morning. For our
audience worldwide, the second hour of
Bloomberg Savannah starts right now.
Your scores look like this. Following a
two-day tech stock route, we've got
futures up by a tenth of 1% on the S&P
on the NASDAQ 100 by 0.08. Later on,
another tech test. We'll get Amazon
earnings after the closing bell. going
to sound a little bit like Jerry
McGuire, but show me the money.
185 billion dollars of capex we could
see from one company alone for the year
ahead.
>> Yeah, show me what that money buys, I
think, is also the question. What
exactly are they going to do with it
that's actually going to lead to the
results that people are hoping for,
which is the same kind of growth that
they've already experienced with a very
different business model. That's
ultimately what's getting priced into
markets as people reassess what these
tech companies are going to do. There
are going to be winners and losers.
right now. It definitely is a self first
ask questions later in the software
area. At the same time, there's
something else going in the tech names
and it really is this question of how
they are going to spend effectively and
get that kind of growth. The context is
incredible when you look at this
spending. It's basically the total sum
of the three years combined or as
Jonathan said the entire debt market
when it comes to United Kingdom. But the
CEO yesterday, Sundarbachai,
continuously tried to reassure
investors, we need this money. These
costs are necessary for us to continue.
And remember Gemini 3 years ago people
were saying code red when it comes to
Google they were under threat from open
AI and now they're the ones that are out
front.
>> Yeah. Just to clarify that this is
basically how much the UK borrowed in
the debt market in the last 12 months.
And when I asked the question how does a
company spend $185 billion. This is not
how this company used to be run. The
turnaround in Alphabet over the last 12
months is amazing. The rally we've seen
of more than 60% $1.5 trillion in market
cap added to a single name in the last
12 months.
>> They have performed incredibly well.
They've gained more than 70% if you look
at the total return over the past 12
months. They've done uh a really good
job at diversifying away from just cloud
computing although really expanding that
but also getting into the chip sales
business and providing that to uh to uh
to anthropic. A bigger question here
though you ask what's it going to be
spent on? They specified this is all
that they specified new infrastructure
research and talent. So is everybody
going to get a billion dollar payout? Is
that research going to be sending a a a
spaceship up to the moon to try to
figure out how to create data centers? I
mean, exactly what is the next step? And
I think people want to understand that.
That said, the ripples that you're
seeing in Google this morning are
nothing compared to what you're seeing
in some of the other shares that are
getting absolutely hammered and it is
coming off a pretty high base.
>> We'll all take a $1 billion payout,
won't we? You know, I'd take that check
tomorrow.
>> You know, I I I welcome the invitation
to
>> negotiation. Absolutely. The Bank of
England with a decision out just moments
ago. I wonder if this is in our future
over at the Federal Reserve. A decision
to hold interest rates at 3.75% a 5 to4
vote. And based on the communication
we're seeing from the Bank of England on
Thread Needle Street this morning, it
looks like they're going to have a rate
cut at some point in the near term. But
ultimately, is that a little flavor of
what we could see from the Federal
Reserve later this year? That kind of
descent at that kind of level?
>> Well, maybe Kevin Dorsch will get
everybody together and have everybody
get some sort of consensus. But you're
right. How much are we going to see in
an incredibly fractured Federal Reserve?
Do we hear explanations for why? Because
I bet from the Bank of England, you're
going to hear some explanations from why
from each of the individual members. My
guess is that under a Kevin Worsh
Federal Reserve, there might be a little
bit more of a muted explanation.
>> Our colleagues in the UK are going to
take you through the news conference in
the next hour, so stay tuned for that.
Right here in New York, we'll continue
our coverage of what's happening in
financial markets worldwide. Coming up
this hour, we'll catch up with Tom
Kennedy of JP Morgan as AI disruption
ripples through markets, Chris Casso of
Wolf Research as Alphabet ramps up
spending, and Jordan Rochester of
Missouo on the relationship between
President Trump and his Fed chair pick.
We begin this hour with stock steady
with the NASDAQ 100 losing year-to-day
gains in just two sessions. Tom Kennedy
of JP Morgan Asset Management writing,
"This is an example of how selective you
need to be as the market now moves into
a new phase where AI disruption is
becoming more and more evident." Tom
joins us now for more. Tom, good
morning. Good to see you. What a mess in
software.
>> Yep, that's right. I mean, I loved this
chart from Mark Murphy, our software
analyst. He goes, "It's going to be at
least a few years before we can prove
that AI will not disrupt software." So,
this this madness of what we're
experiencing in his view feels like it's
going to be around for for a while. I
just love that gem from work.
Outstanding.
>> That's a massive problem. So if we have
to question the multiple and some of
these names because we don't think the
recurring revenue is as predictable or
the margins might be under threat, is
that a story that stays isolated to that
group of names or is it something that
bleeds out to the rest of the market?
>> You're talking you're talking about how
much capitalization is being added to
certain of these tech names over time.
This disruption from this technology is
happening way faster than anything we've
ever seen. Like we say that a lot, but
this is the discussion you guys were
just having is emblematic of how fast
this is. one input from anthropic bank
>> and if you start to play with these
tools you can see how powerful they can
be and now software is the idea of the
moment but business services is the next
discussion the media is the discussion
after that there are ripple effects John
so my point to say there's this is the
the moment and we're squeezing that
balloon here something else will will
move there
>> John was talking about how some of the
private credit managers who have been at
the epicenter of some of these
investments or believed to be
potentially have been really beaten up.
You've seen the likes of Blue Owl and
Aries and KKR, all of which are
reporting this morning, uh, see massive
draw down so far this year. I'm just
wondering, do you think the private
credit is the epicenter?
>> Private credit is just getting
discussion points now, but I think
rightfully so. When you look at the
numbers, uh, direct lending versus its
public market equivalent of leverage
loans. U, tech is 20 plus% in private
credit, only about 15% in the leverage
loan market. Then you move to business
services 20% of private credit is in
business services and in lev loans it's
about half that 10%. So there is a
concentration risk here for AI
disruption. Uh that discussion point's
just happening. Is the disruption big
enough to move that far up in the
capital structure I think is the
question and the market doesn't really
know. You made the comment uh in the
last hour transparency. We're going to
get tons of transparency. you're going
to have to defend what you own and what
your exposure risk is even though we
don't know exactly what the disruption
will be. Uh I think we all assume it's
coming.
>> We saw areas disclose this that they
have 9% of their total private credit
assets related to software, 6% of their
total assets.
>> You're not seeing a big move in the
stock. Why is that not enough? Why is it
not enough if some of these uh fund
managers come out and say, "Look, this
is what we have. We're good. We're the
cleanest shirt in a dirty laundry." Um,
not to speak to areas directly, but I
think as an industry, we need more
transparency into that industry. And,
you know, at JP Morgan, we're talking so
much about public and private and how
they're going to integrate each other.
Transparency is the thing that's going
to integrate. So, I think what the
market is forcing uh private credit
managers to want to do is to show what
you own and push it out there. It's
going to take more time and more than
just a quote about what you what the
percentage is.
>> Do you stay away from private credit and
private assets for the most part or do
you move away from them in this
environment? I don't I don't see how
like let's be honest there's no way you
can move away from private markets. This
is the market that is growing. This is
where supply is coming. So as wealth
accumulates naturally this is going to
be a part of a portfolio. However, when
you look at private credit you have to
look at what you're getting in the
riskreward. Right now the spread between
leverage loans and private credit is the
tightest yield we've seen in the postco
era. So you're not getting that much
compensation to go from public to
private. And at the same time, leverage
has accumulated in the private space. So
the compensation you're getting for that
next incremental piece of leverage has
come down. So I think the the real
conversation is which one do I want to
own? Again, when we look at our consumer
data, we think the economy is in really
good shape. So you want you can have
extended credit. It's just which one do
you want and how much risk are you
willing to take?
>> Do you think private equity now needs to
stay away from software?
>> Um that's going to be really hard to do.
The private equity market owns a lot of
software and we haven't had the
liquidity profile for them to exit
those. So I think it's kind of might be
easy to say I want to hold off on that
but you have a lot of that already. So
you're going to have to deal with it.
>> You run real estate investment strategy
at JP Morgan. Let's spend some time on
that. $185 billion of capex from from
Alphabet. How much are these players in
your world now?
>> This is the the single most defining
moment in real estate we've seen in a
couple decades looking backwards.
What did America do? We built warehouse
and logistics spaces so stuff could get
put in that box and delivered to your
house
>> consumption
>> as fast as possible. And now we live in
New York. You can get things to your
house in 2 hours. But what's being
onshored and the needs of these
businesses is completely different than
a logistics business. So again, looking
backwards, we've only added like 350
million square ft of manufacturing space
in the last 20 years. It's nothing. But
now you want to onore a business that
needs a lot of power, specific type of
space and an expertise that is only in
specific areas. So this supply of
commercial real estate does not exist.
We need to build it. A lot of this can
this money that you're talking about
from these hyperscalers is going to the
infrastructure. And in our portfolio, we
own product that is highowered and in
good location. In the last 12 months,
we've seen total returns for that
property north of 10%. compared to a
logistic and warehouse space about 2%.
This is defining this is a new phase for
commercial real estate.
>> Can you talk us through who has the
expertise, who has the capacity to be
doing this? Because one thing we tried
to achieve a little bit earlier was try
to understand who are the management
teams driving this, who's signing the
check, spending this money over at
Alphabet. How is this getting done?
>> Yeah, the the infrastructure buildout is
mostly built around the consumer of of
AI. The obvious ones are robotics,
aerospace and defense, pharmaceutical.
So that's where the expertise is. Where
do those firms really exist? For the
most part, they're in Southern
California, parts of Texas. But what
we're seeing is interesting is now they
have to move out of those areas into
other places. Why? Where is their power
in this country that they can get access
to? Certain places. You want to build a
manufacturing plant that needs high
power, you call the grid operator, they
say, "No, thank you. We don't have power
for you." So you have to move elsewhere.
So you're getting concentrated pockets
in Southern California, parts of Texas,
Southeast, and this new one you guys are
going to talk about a lot is in the
Midwest. So legacy types of
manufacturing.
>> I keep thinking about the pictures of
computers in the 1950s and 1960s, and
they took up an entire room.
>> Yeah.
>> And now this is the same thing, my
phone. And you start wondering at what
point will the technology be moving so
quickly to render a lot of this real
estate and infrastructure obsolete. How
do you prevent against stranded assets
given how quickly the technology is
moving and has to move in order to
fulfill all of the promises and lofty
goals of artificial intelligence?
>> Yeah, I think that's a a real risk. I
think what we're hearing from the
hyperscalers though is they need this
infrastructure and they will spend
whatever it takes to get there and the
offshoot of that is commercial real
estate and manufacturing. I think this
tech risk is there. I think for the most
part the test tech risk is in a data
center though. If you look at a
manufacturing property and then compare
it to a data center
the data center might be commercial real
estate but two-thirds of the value is in
the tech and the the hardware to make it
operate. So it has tech obsolescence. A
manufacturing property could be
retrofitted into something else. But
something you're hitting on is is
different. When you walk through these
onshored critical industries that I'm
talking about that need this high power,
it's not a car plant. It's a bunch of
people looking at screens, you know,
maybe making a a little widget that's
going to go to go to Mars. Like it's a
different type of uh manufacturing. Um
so it is different, but again, the
clientele that want is going to work in
that box is very different, too. They
want to live near all the amenities that
we care about. Um, so it's a very unique
property, but this is the a defining
moment for commercial real estate.
>> So, let's put some money to work.
Where's the opportunity for you and a
team at the moment? Where would you
deploy capital?
>> JP Morgan is hyperfocused on real assets
at a way as a way to diversify. I think
in the media, we talk a ton about gold.
Investors can only own so much gold. So,
you have to look for other things.
Infrastructure has been a play that
we're focused on in our JP Morgan
infrastructure fund. We do not own data
centers. Doesn't mean we never will, but
we're trying to diversify the tech
trade. And I think, you know, you look
at all these outlooks from Wall Street,
they're all telling you the same thing.
Tech's going to change the world and
it's all the same trade. So, we're
trying to diversify. And commercial real
estate is the best way to diversify. It
is Main Street America. It has gone
through a repricing and we've only seen
two other material repricings like this.
Both times you had a 10 to 15 year bull
run, and you you had four or 5x your
money over the that period. This is the
new diversifier. Um, and I think you're
going to see just about everybody pivot
towards that.
>> That's the pitch, Tom. It's good to see
you. Thank you, sir. Appreciate it. Tom
Kennedy of JP Morgan Asset Management.
Elsewhere, equities doing okay, positive
by 210 of 1% on the S&P 500. With an
update on stories worldwide with your
Bloomberg brief is Vonyie Quinn. Hey,
Vonyie.
>> Hey, John. Thank you. President Donald
Trump says immigration enforcement in
Minneapolis needs a softer touch, saying
he personally decided to pull 700 agents
from Minnesota. That still lives about
2,000 federal agents in the Twin Cities
area. White House border star Tom Hman
promising a shift to more targeted
enforcement.
The Trump administration hosting a
critical minerals summit yesterday. The
EU, Japan, and Mexico each agreeing with
the United States to set up new
policies, including price floors to help
solve critical mineral supply chain
vulnerabilities. The US is seeking to
create stable investment conditions and
reduce reliance on Chinese supplies of
critical minerals.
Bitcoin slumping below $70,000, falling
more than 42% from its peak last
October. According to data compiled by
Bloomberg, investors pulled out over
$272 million worth of US listed Bitcoin
exchange traded fund flows this week.
The crypto market has lost over a
trillion dollars in value since its
October peak. And that is your Bloomberg
brief, John.
>> Hey Vonnie, thank you. More from Vonyie
later this hour. Up next, big techs, big
spending.
there's a digestion period uh around
this spend and the implications in terms
of um you know free cash flow. I think
this is very positive for the AI
ecosystem overall that the cycle is very
much still intact.
>> Chris Casso of Wolf Research joins us
next live from New York City this
morning. Good morning.
Stocks are positive across the board on
the S&P up by 0.1. Likewise in the
NASDAQ up by 0.2 on the Russell tech
very much in focus under Savannah this
morning. Big techs big spending.
>> There's a digestion period uh around
this spend and the implications in terms
of um you know free cash flow. I think
this is very positive for the AI
ecosystem overall that this cycle is
very much still intact. You have to
think about this as a cycle that's
almost 5 to 10 years in building
relating to the capex spend and the
revenue streams, you know, are just
starting to flow through. Planned capex
at Alphabet as much as 185 billion this
year. So for 26, that's more than the
previous three years combined. Who's it
helping this morning? Chip makers,
Nvidia, AMD, and Broadcom looking to
cash in. Nvidia this morning by more
than 1%. Joining us now to discuss is
Chris Casso. He covers semiconductors
for Wolf Research. Chris, welcome to the
program. Let's talk about where we were
yesterday before we get to where we are
this morning. Yesterday, it felt like at
one point that maybe the pain in
software was beginning to bleed into
hardware into things like chips and
semis. Chris, how insulated are they
from developments elsewhere?
Well, you know that the the pain in
software bleeding into ships doesn't
make a ton of sense to us because the
stocks that we cover, the semiconductor
stocks are enabling the disruption that
that that's happening or or you know is
potentially happens. Uh so, you know,
we've been pretty positive on this and
and particularly in the part of the
space which has underperformed over the
last 6 months, which is, you know, the
the the chip makers themselves, the
Nvidia, AMD, Broadcom. Uh what we've
seen is the suppliers to the chip makers
like like memory and semicap equipment
has actually done very well but you know
Nvidia has underperformed and that's
kind of where we've pivoted a bit now.
>> Chris when Alphabet comes out and says
we're going to spend as much as 185
billion this year. Who gets that money?
Who wins it?
>> Well Broadcom would be the biggest
supplier to uh to to Google. Uh they do
the chip that is Google's TPU chip which
is their custom chip for AI. So, so
Broadcom is the biggest beneficiary of
that. But, you know, we've also saw big
spending for Meta as well last week. Uh,
this is not just a Google trend. This is
a this is an overall trend.
>> How much does this really indicate that
they're going to be willing? I'm talking
about Meta and Google and others who are
the buyers of the Nvidia products, of
the AMD products. How much are they
willing to continue paying up? Is this a
margin story that could potentially be
crimping some of the dynamism in terms
of the share performance?
Well, you know, I mean, first with
regard to the spending, there's been
concern about can the spending continue,
can it grow from these levels since uh,
you know, really, you know, 2023 when
chat GBT came out and now Google is
spending, you know, more than the entire
industry did back in uh, in in at that
time. So, you know, that's one part of
it. The where I think investors have
actually been a little more comfortable
and, you know, Google's had a good run.
Meta was up on that on that earnings
report despite the big capex is that the
customers of of of the companies I cover
are actually starting to monetize this
now. So you're getting some monetization
in exchange for that this very high
spending. Uh so you know I think the
fact that the customers of of the
companies I cover are actually making
money on this gives us more confidence
that the spending will in fact continue.
How much is Google stealing Nvidia's
lunch, especially given the fact that
the TPU is considered a more efficient
way to play the uh AI game for a lot of
different customers?
>> Well, TPU that that Google provides has
been successful for some time and they
still buy a lot of NVIDIA chips and most
of those chips go into their own cloud
where enterprise customers will come to
the Google cloud and they want to use
Nvidia and because Nvidia is the
industry standard, Google has to do
that. where Google uses TPU uh uh more
more significantly is in their own
internal workloads and uh in that you
know the way we look at the market is
that market is considered kind of out
out of Nvidia's available market. What's
changed over the last couple of months
is that Google has also started inviting
some customers like Enthropic for
example to come onto their cloud and and
and use TPU which has expanded the
market some. But in general, our view is
that the vast majority of this market is
still Nvidia's domain because it's the
most flexible. They have the software
support. It's very hard for other
customers to kind of get off of Nvidia.
Google is a bit of an exception and it's
a big exception but for the most part
that it this this is still going to be a
majority market for Nvidia.
>> Is that going to change though in the
future at some point where Nvidia's
biggest competition is actually going to
be Google?
>> Well, and the question is so who else is
is Google going to be able to sell TPU
to? So, so you know Google is you know a
significant part of of the of the market
but will they will they start selling it
to others and and our view is that you
know perhaps some anthropic deal is one
example of that but Google is not likely
to sell TPU to Amazon they're not likely
to sell it to Microsoft um if you're an
enterprise customer doing uh work on
even the Google cloud you still need
Nvidia because Nvidia has the software
support they support all the frameworks
So I I think there is a competitive
threat. I think it's it's it's baked
into the cake right now and I don't
think that competitive threat gets s
much more significant. Now one of the
other factors is that everybody else uh
is also trying to do their own chips.
Meta has their own chip. U Amazon has
their own chip and right now the size of
those chips is is is much smaller than
where Nvidia and u uh Google is right
now. If those chips kind of have their
TPU moment and get larger, then that
becomes a bigger threat. But so far, we
haven't seen that.
>> Sorry about that. So, basically, if
Google is ahead of Meta and all these
others that are making TPUs,
who do you think is the most comp
competition when it comes to Google?
Who's who's behind them in the race?
Uh so you know probably the the the
other uh company that's doing their own
that is probably closest would be uh
Amazon and and their tranium chip. And
so far it it's it's been you know
somewhat successful but nowhere near as
successful as Google. So I'd say that
would probably be the next one that we'd
be watching.
>> Hey Chris, it's good to hear from you.
Thanks for joining us. Chris Cass of
Wolf Research on some of the chip
players. It makes a lot of sense. Chris
is right. Ultimately, if these companies
are coming out spending loads of money,
they're going to spend it with many of
these players. He's also right to point
out that if disruption is that real and
successful right now, then what are they
going to be spending money on? Chips and
these chip providers.
>> So, that's the reason why they should do
well except that there has been this
rotation away and people are worried
about uh some of the performance. AMD,
they came out, they actually had good
earnings.
>> They got absolutely hammered. The worst
one-day selloff going back to 2017. Why?
Because it wasn't quite as good as
people were expecting. So the bar has
just gotten so high even for these names
that even a wonderful result doesn't
necessarily assuage some of the biggest
uh skepticism.
>> In just a moment, we'll pivot and talk
about central banking with Jordan
Rochester of Missou. We'll talk about
central banking on this side of the
Atlantic. This is happening right now in
the UK boosting bets on easing for the
Bank of England. Maybe as soon as March,
we could see that rate cut. There was a
vote a little bit earlier, a decision to
keep rates unchanged on hold. The vote
though five to four and the language
clearly steering us towards a rate cut
in our future saying that interest rates
are likely to be reduced further and we
raised the question as to whether we see
that kind of division that kind of split
on the FOMC later this year under new
leadership
>> we're already seeing the beginnings of
it right I mean three governors
dissenting is a significant kind of
shift from what we have seen in the past
is this normal I think that this is
really the key question is this normal
at a time of economic disruption when
you're potentially at a pivot point in
the economy and people don't know where
it's going. Is it normal to get a
disscent in terms of opinion or is it a
sense of the deep divisions and the
fractured nature of this Federal Reserve
in this particular era under a potential
Kevin war?
>> I think you're probably right to say
maybe normal absent a crisis at a
perceived turning point which is maybe
where we are at the moment in the global
economy. We're down about 3/4 of 1% on
sterling cable at 1355. Up next, Jordan
Rochester of Missouo from New York City.
You're watching Bloomberg TV.
At the surface level on the S&P, things
haven't been too dramatic. Beneath the
surface, vicious moves. Tech, tech
stocks, software names absolutely beaten
up and hammered over the past week or
so. S&P 500 futures this morning rolling
over. We're down by a quarter of 1% now
down by another third on the NASDAQ
following the biggest 2-day route since
October on the NASDAQ 100. The losses
continue to build. The Russell also
turning negative in the past 30 minutes
or so. We're down by about 0.2%. We've
talked a lot about this throughout this
morning. But away from big cap tech,
away from software names, what you've
seen is an equal weight back at alltime
highs. Regional bank stocks just short
of a record at a close. Taking some life
from this, better economic data, a
better outlook, and a yield curve that's
at it steepest levels, twos versus tens
that we've seen going back to 2022.
>> So, is this a bad picture or a good
picture from an economic perspective? It
has been good. Question is, will the
economic data ratify it? We don't get an
answer with respect to the main jobs
report. We do get some other peripheral
data and so far it's been relatively
mixed. John,
>> we're getting some of that data right
now. Let's cross over to Mike McKe for
more. Good morning, Mike.
>> Good morning, John. Well, I got bad news
for you, Lisa. The Challenger report is
out, and it is a pretty dismal one.
108,435
job cuts announced in the month of
January. That is the highest January
total since 2009. Uh, as far as the
numbers go, it's up 205%
from December. There were 5,36
employers announcing hiring plans, and
that is the lowest January total since
2009 as well. So, some particularly bad
news on the challenger front. We don't
usually uh talk about it, but sometimes
lately when challenger has come out,
we've seen big market moves on the
pessimism about what it might mean for
the economy. Who cut the most? Well,
transportation was the biggest and that
was largely due to UPS announcing 30,000
job cuts, followed by Amazon and their
16,000. But healthc care, which is an
unusual one to be in this category, was
also big. Uh the caveat, as we always
mention with Challenger, is these are
announcements, not actual job cuts, and
some of those job cuts don't get carried
out. So, we'll have to see how this is
reflected once we get into the jobless
claims numbers and once we get into the
payroll numbers, which is now next
Wednesday. Mike McKe. Thank you, sir.
We'll catch up with Mike again in about
60 minutes time when we get those
jobless claims numbers. A lot of that
concentrated in just a couple of names.
>> Almost half of all the job cuts that
were announced last month were tied to
three companies. This really highlights
just what we're talking about.
Amazon.com, UPS, as Mike was mentioning,
and DAO, uh, which also announced a
pretty significant, uh, broad-based
cuts. It raises a question. Is this
signal or is this noise? Is this a
couple of companies that are shedding
workers after building out their
workforces dramatically over the past
decade or is this a signal of more to
come right now? Again, it adds to the
noise. This has all been so muddy. It's
very difficult to get a real clear read
at a pivot point.
>> Kit Juke Sockchen, we talked about him a
little bit earlier. Even if we had the
payrolls report tomorrow, I wouldn't
know what to do with it. That was Kit
Jes.
Lots of people feel that way because
that's been the story the last 12
months. I mentioned JP Morgan pointing
out that 40% roughly 40% of US GDP
growth in the first three quarters of
last year came from tech capex. So when
Alphabet comes out and says guess what
this year we're going to spend as much
as $185 billion. What do you trade on
that or the jobs numbers that Mike McKe
just went through?
>> So far people have been trading on that
not necessarily the jobs numbers that
people are looking at at the same time
we got yesterday ADP data. It came in
below expectations. People dismissed
that and looked at ISM services that
came in stronger than expected. But if
you look under the hood, the employment
component actually missed expectations.
So it's unclear what we're seeing. And
right now, people are just focusing on
the tech companies first and foremost
because of the scope of the money that
they have to spend.
>> There is a wait to the tape. This
morning in the last 10 15 minutes or so,
we've rolled over. We're down about 0.4%
on the S&P 500. You'll notice yields are
pinned at the front end of the curve,
down about two basis points to 353.
We'll stay on top of that for you. Let's
get you some single names with your
morning movers. Here's Yahara with more.
Hey yara.
>> Hi John. Alphabet's $185 billion
spending spree is lighting up the AI
chip makers. Though we are losing some
steam steam here as you just said we are
seeing Broadcom leading the gains up two
and 3/4% and that is because it is
Google's partner for TP TPUs which are
the specialized chips used to run AI
models. Nvidia also in the green. AMD up
now just 2/10en of 1% though it did have
a very brutal sell-off yesterday down
17%. Meanwhile, we are seeing Snapshares
rising in the pre-market up 8/10en of a
percent also losing steam here after the
picture social media company did beat on
sales and posted a surprise profit. It
posted fourth quarter earnings of 3
cents a share when analysts were
expecting a loss. And part of that was
because of the number of users willing
to pay for a spruced up app jumping 70%
and that spurred an upgrade by analysts
over at B Riley. And we end on Estee
Lauder, close to wiping out all of these
years gains uh now down nearly 14% in
the pre-market after the company's new
annual guidance came in below
expectations at the midpoint range. But
despite that, the company did beat on
earnings thanks to high-end uh skin care
like La Mer, but the bar was high as
Lisa says and it wasn't able to clear
it, so it is getting punished for it in
the market.
>> Yahara, thank you. Thank you very much.
I love Chris Harvey over at CIBC just
published market is selling off sort of
but not really down 0.5% yesterday. It's
worth highlighting that we were only
down 0.5%. But when you drop 0.5% and
the moves are that vicious beneath the
surface 0.5% feels a whole lot more
painful than maybe it is.
>> Well, because it's not 0.5% if you have
a tech concentrated portfolio. It's down
some 10% even 20%. I was looking at some
of the single neighbor uh single names
that uh just looking at the draw downs
based on the past 52 months. Duolingo.
Do you like Duolingo? I like Duolingo.
It's down 78% from its uh from its high
in the past 52 weeks. I mean, it just
gives you a sense of how significant
these
>> dry play with Dualingo a little bit more
often clearly.
>> I I you know, I mean, I probably should
get on my streak. Yeah, my kids.
>> What language? What are you playing
with?
>> Spanish. Okay,
>> my mom's learning Korean. She's learning
Arabic.
>> Is she actually learning Korean though
or is she just sort of like gamifying
the language and she can answer the
questions? Well,
>> what is learning a language in the
modern era? She communicate in Korean.
>> Yeah, but she's accept, you know, she
does these things, but no, I mean, I
can't. And then the accent is neither
can I. I'm certainly not judging. Just
wondering if the product works or not.
>> Really? Okay. Do we even need it if we
can all just have translators in our
heads?
>> I don't know why we're talking about
Duolingo. Stocks down by about 0.5% on
the S&P 500 session lows. We'll stay on
top of that. On our radar this morning,
Alphabet looking to double its AI capex
this year to as much as $185 billion.
the ambitious spending plan aiming to
leverage its revenue growth to build out
data centers and infrastructure.
Elsewhere, the Trump administration
pitching price flaws for critical
minerals and US private equity
investment. America committing to a 100
billion lending authority for critical
minerals and a nearly 12 billion
stockpile in an effort to reduce
reliance on China. And finally, Treasury
Secretary Scott Besson set to return to
testify on Capitol Hill today after a
fiery house hearing just yesterday.
So I ask you, Secretary Benson, will you
be the voice of reason in the
administration and urge Trump to stop
waging a war on American consumers and
on housing or affordability and putting
the economy at risk? Yes or no? You
don't have to explain.
>> Representative will be the voice. Will
you be the voice? Can you share the
housing? Besson testifying that he
believes the Federal Reserve has lost
the trust of the American people by
allowing inflation to get out of
control.
>> This was fiery. And that wasn't even the
most fiery moment. The other one was
from Representative Meeks from New York
where I believe an F drum bomb was
dropped at one point.
>> What was that about?
>> This was an incredibly contentious
hearing and the Treasury Secretary also
came back every single time. At one
point he said, "Can you maintain some
level of dignity?" he hit back to some
of these individuals under his breath.
He said, "Well, the questions need to be
serious for me to give you a serious
answer." It potentially wait when it
goes to the Senate, we'll have a little
bit more decorum, but I'm not sure.
>> Did we learn anything? I'm serious.
Like, was there any news value
whatsoever from this?
>> We have this conversation yesterday
about this.
>> We could have it next week. We could
have it after tomorrow's or today's
hearing.
>> He said some stuff that things that
we've been talking about on this show.
He once again reiterated that the US has
a strong dollar policy. There was some
things you can glean and learn into, but
yeah, this is obviously everyone just
making campaign videos.
>> That's not the hearing that Chair Hill
would like to have, I imagine. I'm not
sure why that descended into such a
fast.
>> There's actually really interesting
questions to be answered. Yeah,
obviously. I mean, honestly, what does a
uh working together look like between
the Treasury and the Fed? What does he
see in terms of exactly how the US takes
stakes in companies? How does some of
these reserves actually function? These
are the questions that actually would
have market ramifications. Instead,
we're stuck with other things.
>> Maybe someone will ask him a little bit
later. I won't hold my breath. I was
about to say,
>> but we'll see. Let's stick with the
central bank. President Donald Trump
emphasizing the litmus test for his Fed
chair nominee.
>> Does your new Fed pick understand that
you want him to lower interest rates?
>> Well, I think he does, but I think he
wants to anyway. I mean, if he came in
and said, "I want to raise him." We
should.
>> If he said that, he wouldn't have gotten
the job.
>> He would not have gotten the job. No.
>> John Rochester of Missou writing this.
How long until Trump turns on Kevin
Walsh, too? Jordan joins us now for
more. Jordan, welcome to the program.
Are you suggesting he will and why?
>> No, I'm not suggesting he will. We're
just pointing out that the last time he
chose a federal uh chair was Jerome Pal
and it took about a year from saying he
was his pick to calling him clueless. So
Kevin Walsh has to walk a pretty uh
tight tight rope here. The data over the
next month or so I think will be pretty
darn strong. I think we're starting to
see the fruits of uh Scott Besson's
efforts, which is the one big beautiful
bill. We're starting to see a big pick
up in manufacturing. We're starting to
see that data surprises scream higher in
the US. So for the next few months,
it'll be a difficult environment to be
too doubbish is the sort of view from
here. Things might change by June when
Kevin Walsh takes over in his first
meeting. But if Chair Powell is still
there, uh, if there isn't a majority
agreeing to cut rates, then it might not
be Trump turning against Walsh, but it
might be Trump putting pressure on the
other members of the FOMC instead.
>> Jordan, the market has a really
interesting response to the Kevin Worsh
nomination. It is that at the front end,
you're going to see rate cuts and at the
long end, you're seeing yields bleed
higher because they do believe that in
uh that the economic data is going to be
strong and that you are going to see
some persistent inflation. What do you
think a Kevin Worsh uh Federal Reserve
will do and how will they respond to
longer end rates that are going higher?
>> Well, I think the interesting thing
about Kevin is he talks about the need
to get away from this swivel chair sort
of narrative. The sort of
backward-looking monetary policy that
we've had from various central banks
where it's all about being data
dependent. And the problem with being
data dependent is each non-farm payrolls
report whether it's hot or cold
completely changes the narrative for
market pricing. And it's it has felt
like monetary policy makers have kind of
blown with the wind on that. So just any
small beat in in non-farm payrolls has
completely changed what we needed to
price in for the year end. Kevin wants
to move away from that sort of data
dependence and more be more
forward-looking and is talking about AI
being a big disinflationary force
especially in the services sector. And
that means instead of using the last
couple of months of data to justify a
decision, you use your foresight and
your forecasting um skills to say, look,
inflation might be high today, but we
think it's going to be much lower next
year or the year after. Therefore, we're
going to go ahead and cut rates. That's
a big that's a big change in reaction
function. It means that markets will not
react in the same way to each non-farm
payrolls report and CPI release like
they used to. It actually suggests lower
volatility, but things will still
develop as we'll see. What I'm trying to
say, Jordan, is if you have a Fed chair
that's saying, "Okay, we can cut rates
because there is this greater efficiency
and you get this sort of disinflationary
boom that people are hoping for," how
does he respond to a long end of the
yield curve that disagrees with him that
seems to be moving in the opposite
direction?
>> Well, it's also his views on the balance
sheet that will contribute to that view
where it's not really disagreeing with
him. It's more about the demand supply
dynamics. And Kevin also talks about a
smaller balance sheet and there's a
large amount of US treasuries in that
balance sheet as well as MBS. If he's
talking about shrinking the balance
sheet that means more supply for US
treasuries. So it does mean a steeper
curve. But what I will say is on the
street it seems near unanimous consensus
of strategists push pushing for uh
steepeners for the curve to steepen that
is higher yields in the long end. So
your sort of 10 year your 30 year
everyone seems to have the same trade
on. So therefore it's not moving as
quickly. In fact, it's flattened
slightly over the past couple of
sessions. So, for the time being, Kevin
will take comfort in that the market's
not moved too much, but we'll have to
wait and see. I just don't think he will
reduce the size of the balance sheet
that quickly. And I think that's a
consensus as well, and therefore, we
don't need to worry about it too much.
But rising US yields on the back of
rising US growth, which is what we're
talking about right now, it's not the
end of the world. It's actually a good
thing. Jordan, we heard from the
president saying he wouldn't get the job
if he didn't want to lower interest
rates and you outlined how Kevin Walsh
thinks about this, but do you think he
can convince the rest of the committee
more than just Steve Meyer?
>> Now, when the boss is there, things
might change uh and other members of the
FMC might start to see to his way of
thinking. I think a lot depends on
whether Pal gives up his chair, his
position or not as a board member. If he
was to bow out, then I do see the
perhaps a move towards the Kevin Walsh
view of the world. But if Powell is
still there arguing against rate cuts in
June, that's where we could see one of
the first uh sort of dissents against
the governor since the time of uh Paul
Vulkar.
>> Jordan, final question for the two
people that know what Aston Villa is.
Top four finish this year.
>> Fingers crossed. We're we're third at
the moment. We didn't play so well
against Brenford. Um but we've got a
couple of uh a couple of uh sort of
fixtures coming up where I think we're
going to have a good win. Top four is
the ultimate aim. We're not going to win
the league. Uh but Champions League is
on the way.
>> Jonah, thank you. Appreciate how
sincerely you responded to that question
too. Jordan Rochester there. Jordan,
thank you very much. Let's turn back to
this market. Equity session lows rolled
over quite aggressively in the last 30
minutes or so. We're down 0.6% on the
S&P 500. You'll see in the bond market
yields started to roll over as well. So,
we're down a basis point or two,
particularly at the front end of the
curve. Two is down to about 353.
Hard to pinpoint one thing. This has
been accumulating. We've seen it in
software stocks and the risk aversion
building there. Bitcoin with a break of
70K a little bit earlier on in the
session, too. And then that headline at
about 7:30 Eastern time on the amount of
job cuts we're going to see from certain
companies to start the year.
>> The pillar that's been upholding this
market, at least at the index level, has
been the promise of stronger growth.
When you get a challenge to that from
these challenger job cuts, uh, no pun
intended, that really raises questions.
And I think on the margins, people are
looking at this and saying, "Okay, if
you have a pretty fragile labor market
with not a lot of give, what do job cuts
like this really translate into when
people have a hard time getting a new
one on the other end?"
>> You can understand why people are
bullish about the outlook. There's three
pillars for that. Fiscal policy, tax
refunds, monetary policies, the rate
cuts we've already had, and then you've
got this additional layer. The fact that
you've got a handful of companies going
on a monster spending spree the likes of
which we've never seen in economic
history. Alphabet coming out with $185
billion tops maybe for the year ahead
and other companies are going to follow.
That's why the bulls are so bowled up
because in their view the reason they
have this really bright optimistic
outlook for the US economy. They're
three pillars that are hard to fight.
>> They see the 1990s all over again and
they want to get in on it especially if
it's 1996. The problem is, do you get
the jobs that come with that and can the
consumer keep upholding this type of
nirvana? And that I think is still uh it
really remains to be seen.
>> Stocks are softer. We're down by 0.6% on
the S&P. With an update on stories
worldwide with your Bloomberg brief is
Vonnie Quinn. Hey Vonnie.
>> Hey John. Thank you. US companies
reporting the largest number of job cuts
for any January since the Great
Recession in 2009. According to data
from challenger Gray and Christmas,
January job cuts rose over 100%
year-over-year. The report also showing
hiring intentions sliding to their
weakest total for any January since
2009.
Shares of Shell trading lower. Europe's
largest oil company missing on fourth
quarter profit due to lower crude prices
and weak oil trading. Shell maintaining
its quarterly share buyback of $3 and
half billion dollars even as lower crude
prices weigh on plans to boost investor
returns.
Pelaton shares lower in the pre-market
as well. The company reporting weaker
than expected revenue forecast for its
fiscal third quarter disappointing
investors who hoped a recent hardware
revamp would help spur a long promised
turnaround. And that is your Bloomberg
brief. John.
>> Hey Vonnie, thank you. Appreciate the
update. Thank you very much. Up next,
surging expenses.
In order to really succeed at AI and at
the platform, at the size of the of the
of of this platform, a Google, a Meta,
an Amazon, a Microsoft, you know, you
need an enormous amount of compute
power. I think they can get a good
return on it, but it's an extremely
expensive proposition.
>> Up next, we'll speak to the bill
himself, Dan I of Wetbush from New York.
You're watching Bloomberg TV.
Live from New York City, here we go
again. We're down by half of 1% on the
S&P 500. The Nasdaq down by 0.9.
And the Savas this morning surging
expenses.
>> In order to really succeed at AI and at
the platform, at the size of that of the
of this platform, a Google, a Meta, an
Amazon, a Microsoft, you know, you need
an enormous amount of compute power.
Those are table stakes. Now, I think
they can get a good return on it, but
it's an extremely expensive proposition.
Genai has made um uh running these
business at scale with improvements much
more expensive. So, here's the latest
this morning. Big tech ramping up
spending plans as a global slump in tech
rips through markets. AI fears wiping
out about $1 trillion in software stocks
over the past week. Dan Ives of Wedbush
writing, "We believe the market is
baking in a doomsday scenario for
software companies in the near term,
which we believe is extremely
overblown." Dan joins us now for more.
Dank morning.
>> Great to be here.
>> Where's the black tie?
>> I I I look I given futures, I was
thinking maybe wearing like a blue suit
or but yeah, but again
>> and we're close. Look, you say a
doomsday scenario for software stocks.
Some people might say actually this is
the most optimistic outlook for the AI
theme. The fact that this is happening.
Look, I think in my view the view that
software is dead, do not enter Zoom
because of AI, I think is wrong because
if you look like look, is it a headwind
for Salesforce, for Adobe, for service
now? Of course. But what's factoring in
here is basically a structural breakdown
of the sector. I mean, you'd have to
assume that numbers come down 15 20%
next few years relative to the install
base, maintenance, ARR. My whole point
is is that in moments like this,
market's way overshot here. I I just
believe there are opportunities and you
cannot just paint all with one brush
saying software is done.
>> So, how actively are you buying right
now?
>> Yeah. I mean, look, we've I mean, I've
been I've heard from clients I haven't
heard from in a decade because it's that
nervous of an environment to be like,
what do you own? And that's what we've
talked about like Salesforce, Crowd
Strike, you know, I think Microsoft
here. How do you compete though with the
likes of $185 billion of capital
expenditure in one year? How do you
compete with some of the hyperscalers
that are investing in every facet of the
tech world if you're a smaller company
that used to be big but doesn't have the
same sort of multifaceted bunch of
revenue streams?
>> Yeah. And look, there's going to be pure
plays smaller that could get acquired. I
mean, I think ultimately if you're if
you're private equity here, you're big
strategic, they're going to be looking
at software. I think this is going to
catalyze a huge M&A in software because
when it comes to the use cases the only
one that's really shown it so far is
poundier now then it's like okay
Snowflake that's sort of next in
line but to say that Salesforce is not
going to be able to monetize it service
now is not going to be able to monetize
you know if you look at like what's
happened cyber security crowd strike
powto across the board so look my whole
point here is that we are going through
almost like a mini deepseek moment from
a year ago relative to tech gut check
moment what's happening but I believe
that you're starting to see what I think
are going to be huge opportunities in
software
>> these are crash level moves I think we
all appreciate that you can see that on
the charts the question I'd ask you
though as an analyst is whether you have
to reassess the appropriate multiple on
some of these software names now when
you can have an input on enthropic that
can change the game so many times so
many different ways for so many
different companies that the recurring
revenue we'd put a big multiple on is
now less predictable that the big fat
margins are now threatened. Doesn't that
multiple have to come down?
>> Look, I think it's TBD because to me
it's like let's say like if I look at
like what anthropic yesterday, if I'll
talk to 10 15 customers of software
buyers. So it's like okay, is this going
to affect the move? Is this real? It's
for us it's trying to separate the
headlines from the reality of what could
really happen. Now look, is this a
headwind? Does it cause disruption?
Yeah. But does it mean pounder should be
down 10 to 13%. Does it mean that the
software index you know so far this year
is down 18%. So I think that really is
opportunity. I think look next time I
between now and next time I see you I
think I think software rips from here
higher relative to just how oversold it
is. I mean look I I was just you know in
the Uber before you know the guy was
negative on the software sector. We'll
cut that and play it back. And we'd like
to see a change of clothes, too. Right.
>> If there is not any kind of ripping in
the stocks, you are going to come on in
a black suit, black tie, white shirt.
>> Done. Deal. Deal. Dan, final question
before you go. Deal. Front page apparent
over the weekend.
>> I read the piece.
>> Very critical of you about disclosures,
all those kind of things. I want to give
you 30 seconds to respond to that.
>> Yeah. I mean, look, I covered tech 25
years, you know, and obviously that's
created opportunities from an analyst
role into other opportunities. I've
talked about, you know, it's all out
there. Again, if I like for me, it's
more the AI revolution. I live and
breathe it inside and outside work,
philanthropy, and others. And I get the
criticism, but I'm an open book.
Investors have known me for decades and
decades. That's why they follow me. But
look, it's just it's the reality of
this, you know, environment. But again,
I it's one like I stand on, you know,
everything I've done over the decades.
But thanks for bringing it up.
>> I remember when you used to wear a
normal suit. I remember those days, too.
>> Exact. It's good to see you. going back
to that.
>> I know.
>> Dan Eisen Wed. Thank you, sir. Thank you
very much. Coming up next, Lisan
Saunders of Charge Swap and a whole lot
more. The third hour of Blind
Surveillance just around the corner.
>> This is an environment of winners and
losers. The sum total in our mind is
that people are cautious with regard to
technology.
>> There is anticipation of disruption. AI
is creating a major disruption.
>> The real asset bubble is still in front
of us.
>> This is Bloomberg surveillance with
Jonathan Pharaoh, Lisa Abramowitz, and
An Marie Hordern.
>> Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. Good morning. For our
audience worldwide, the third hour of
Bloomberg surveillance starts right now.
Your price action looks like this. It
looks like yesterday we're down a half
of 1% on the S&P 500. Following the
biggest two-day route on the NASDAQ
since October, we're down again by 0.8%.
The next big test for big tech after the
closing bell numbers from Amazon after
numbers from Alphabet were pretty good,
topping estimates and coming out with up
to 185 billion of capex for the year
ahead.
>> They also came out with a 48% increase
in terms of their use and sales of cloud
computing. This is a huge boon for that
whole unit. What can Amazon say? Hold my
beer. We're going to invest $250
billion. I mean, and how does the market
respond to it right now? Any massive
capex plan is being penalized in the
market regardless of the success of
prior performance and that I think has
been a theme throughout. People are
wondering whether the multiples have to
change in a new era for technology.
>> Things were fairly steady until about 30
minutes ago, at least on the session so
far. Then this headline dropped.
challenger job cuts for the month of
January, the most to start any year
since 2009. And when you talk about 2009
and jobs, at least at the start of that
year, that's not a good story to tell.
>> And the actual number is pretty
significant considering the fact that
we're not creating that many jobs every
single month. It's 108,000 jobs plus.
However, and there is an asterisk here,
we already knew about a significant
proportion of these job cuts. about half
of them account for three companies that
have already announced job cuts. That of
course has to do with Amazon, UPS, and
DAO. So, is this a question of the
market just trying to look for good and
bad news and resetting, or is this
actually a worry that a lot of these
people won't be able to find other jobs?
I'm not sure I totally understand this
market response this morning because
again, a lot of this was already known.
Well,
>> I wonder if the market's also leaning
heavily on this because we're not going
to get the jobs support this week. We
have to wait for next week. But these
announcements were big when they came
out. Amazon 16,000, UPS 30,000. This is
what Challenger had to say about it.
They're talking about how basically
means that for going into 2026, this is
what companies are signaling that
employers are less than optimistic about
the outlook and we've continuously seen
that when it comes to consumer sentiment
as well.
>> We've talked a number of times about how
some of this has cascaded through
financial markets over the past few days
from software stocks into private market
firms. just eyeballing numbers from TPG
quickly. A number of names caught up in
this route over the last week and for
that matter for these names over the
last 6 to 9 months. And when you eyeball
the numbers, Lisa, there's nothing of
concern at least for now. We've heard
from them, we've heard from others in
the last couple of hours. And that's the
distinction I think you need to make.
The communication from management teams
at this firm, these firms at the moment
seems to be things are okay. The worry
is they won't be further down the line.
Just taking TPG just to put some numbers
to what you're talking about. They're
looking at fee related earnings in the
fourth quarter of $326 million versus an
estimate of $246.8 million. Significant
beat. A significant beat in terms of
revenue. Almost $und00 million more than
expected in terms of what they
delivered. And yet people are not
convinced. There is an existential fear
that business models will be so
profoundly disrupted that asset prices
will go to zero. And that is currently
what's being depriced into a whole host
of different software stocks.
>> Not seeing that in their earnings, at
least not now. Equity futures near
session lows down by 0.5% on the S&P.
Coming up this hour, we'll catch up with
Lisan Sanders of Charles Swab assessing
the software selloff. Puja of TD
securities with a rate decision looming
from the ECB and Abigail W of UBS
breaking down the latest jobs data. We
begin this out with stocks adding to
losses following the NASDAQ 100's
biggest two-day drop since October.
Lisan Sanders of Charles Swab writing,
"Carnage in software stocks likely tied
to the nature of speculation in the AI
space, headlines and even a slight
change in the narrative can result in
fierce moves." Lisanne joins us now for
more. Lisanne, we have seen some fierce
moves. Welcome to the program. We've
seen them in precious metals massive
deleveraging there. We looked at Bitcoin
earlier on this morning, a breaker
70,000 software more recently hammered
private market firms too. Is there a
common thread to the deleveraging we've
seen in each individual pocket of the
market?
>> Well, I think the deleveraging piece,
John, is an important part of it. When
you when you look at how much leverage
had built into things like the the gold
trade and the silver trade and then the
fact that you had the CME raise margin
requirements that pushed a lot of
speculators out fairly quickly. There
was deleveraging there. Anytime you have
margin issues, raising of margin
requires margin calls that has feeders
into other high momentum areas. I I
really think one of the threads too is
that uh rotation is the new momentum
trait. So there's there's a lot of money
positioned to find not just the shiny
new object, but what's the what's the
dull new object and kind of chase that
rotation and I think we stay in that
environment probably at least in the
near term. How much confidence can we
take Lzanne to your point from the moves
we've seen an equal weight record high
regional bank stocks just short of
all-time highs. How much weight can we
put on that?
>> I I think the broadening trade has has
legs because there's fundamental
underpinnings to it. It's not just a
rotation trade, but when you look at the
direction of travel, you look at the
earnings growth rate, say for the cohort
that is the Magnificent 7, and you
compare it to the other 493,
the the growth rate for the Mag 7 is
still higher than the other 493, but the
direction is what matters. And the
direction is heading down a bit for the
7, up a bit for the 493. you're seeing
it down the cap space where you've
actually got not just a positive
trajectory in terms of earnings growth
at higher levels for an index like the
Russell 2000 but a little bit more
stability in that outlook as opposed to
high estimates and then they get pulled
down when you're in earnings season. So
I think there are fundamental
underpinnings. The the buildout of AI
adding to the benefit of the more
cyclical areas be it energy or
industrials and materials that helps to
explain the broadening out trade outside
of the US because many of those more
cyclical areas is what dominate their
economies as opposed to tech having been
the dominant force in our economy. So I
I I think it's a it's a meaningful shift
that that probably will continue.
>> Given this meaningful shift that a lot
of people are pricing into a number of
different assets, how do you take into
consideration an announcement like what
we got today from Challenger Gray and
Christmas with the greatest number of
job cut announcements in a January going
back to 2009.
Well, you you know, Lisa, you were right
to point out uh a little bit earlier
that there's a concentration there in
terms of a small number of company, but
I think this is a really well, it's a
potentially important data point here if
it's not a one-mon blip because much has
been discussed about the low hiring, low
firing kind of backdrop. Um obviously
ideally if that's going to break it
breaks by higher hiring but if it starts
to break in the other direction uh I
think that changes the narrative around
the employment picture. It may also
change the narrative as it relates to
Federal Reserve policy. So if if you
wanted to put something on maybe the the
bullish for the market side of the
ledger, you could point to that. I think
it's too soon to tell. But you als you
guys also pointed out earlier that in
the absence of the jobs report which of
course we'll we'll we'll only get we'll
only get a few days delayed um we put
more weight and when you look at the ADP
data too there was there was meat in
there smaller companies really under
pressure um the only place where job
growth is robust is in those more
defensive areas like health services and
education with the biggest draw down
coming in professional and businesses
services. that ties into where you're
seeing weakness in challenger.
>> This seems like a really muddied moment
and I really just uh want to lean into
and pair this idea with the leverage
trades that you see unwinding and this
comment that you made that I think is
fantastic which is rotation is the new
momentum trade. Do you see a potential
at which you start to fade some of this
broadening out in the near term not the
long term because the momentum gets
ahead of itself? I mean, is that sort of
the recipe for 2026 is to sort of fade
the extremes as this rolling ball of
cash just keeps going to different
sectors?
>> 100%. And and I think there there's
there's a healthy underpinning when you
have when you have um sort of excess get
get healed uh valuation excess
speculation excess via a process of
rotation. I think that's a that's an
easier to stomach kind of healing of
those excesses than if the bottom fell
all at once. For instance, the NASDAQ at
the index level has only had a 4% uh
draw down, maximum draw down so far this
year. But the average member within the
NASDAQ is down just under 20%. So you've
had sort of this internal bare market.
It just happens through a process of uh
of time. I think probably most investors
would choose that kind of 20% draw down
versus the index coming down 20% all at
once. So, uh it it's it's painful if
you're caught on the you know wrong side
of the proverbial trade but I think
that's a a healthy way to go through a
process of healing some of this excess
particularly on the speculation side.
>> Lzanne always a clinic. Thank you Lzanne
Sanders there of Charles Swab with some
great stats in some of the notes they
put out. Check this out. This is from
Lzanna the team. Only 18% of the S&P 500
constituents have outperformed the index
over the past year. That's up to over
50% in the last month. There's been a
big shift in this market beneath the
surface.
>> It's amazing to see the headline number
down just a bit in more than 350 of the
500 member stocks of the S&P index
actually gaining on the day. It just
shows how different the nature of this
market is. business. Lzanne says, "If
you had to choose one, you'd rather this
to sort of be a blowoff top than one
that looks like Armageddon on the
headline level.
>> This has legs so long as the economy
holds up and the data looks good." And
that's kind of what Lisan is getting at
for the year ahead. The other point I
would point out as well and I think this
will resonate with you just that layer
of financial risk that you have got to
appreciate that there is a channel for
this to go to go bad that if we are
right the way the market's pricing
software stocks which is pretty dramatic
and some people think many think it's
overextended but if they're right about
that then there will be losses and a lot
of loan books at many of these private
market firms and that's a layer of
financial risk that is difficult to
price. It's difficult to price because
people don't understand how systemic
private credit firms and private asset
managers really have become, especially
given the fact that they still play a
role in financing the buildout going
forward. It is not like the role has
ended. It also is instrumental in
providing the financing for all of these
data centers for some of not just the
hyperscalers that have money, the
Google's, but the ones that have not,
which is Oracle, right? So, these are
some of the questions that people have
going forward. Futures down by 0.5% on
the S&P 500 with an update on news
worldwide with your Bloomberg brief is
Vonyie Quinn. Hey Vonyie.
>> Hey John, thank you. So yeah, US
companies reporting the largest number
of job cuts for any January since the
great recession in 2009 according to
data from Challenger Gray and Christmas.
January job cuts rose more than 100%
year-over-year. The report also showing
hiring intentions sliding to their
weakest total for any January since
2009.
President Donald Trump warning Iran's
leaders the US could take military
action against the country if it doesn't
reach a deal on its nuclear program. The
president saying the Iranian foreign
minister should be quote very worried.
According to a White House official, the
US and Iran still plan to meet in Oman
on Friday.
Shares of Qualcomm and of ARM are both
lower in early trading. The
semiconductor companies signaled that a
shortage of memory chips would crimp
growth in the electronics industry. A
shortage that is likely to persist with
Intel CEO sharing suppliers have told
him things will not improve for the next
two years. And that is your Bloomberg
brief. John
>> Hey Vonnie, thank you. Appreciate it. Up
next on the program, the morning cause
plus the latest rate decision from the
ECB. Puja Kamra of TD Securities joins
us to break it down from New York City
this morning. Good morning.
In Q3, Q4 of last year, the narrative
around tech um and AI was really about
uh questioning of valuations that bubble
the the capex spend. And now you're
seeing it shift even further. So that
there's not just question about
valuations, but it's actually the
models. Uh can they actually deliver?
This is really about dispersion and
understanding, not just balance sheets.
It makes sense that investors start to
think about where else can we go.
>> That was Seash of Principal Asset
Management joining us a little bit
earlier on this morning. In the equity
market at the moment, we're down by 0.5%
on the S&P and the NASDAQ down by close
to 0.8. That's the price action. Let's
get you some morning calls. One stock in
focus, Alphabet. First up, Oppenheimimer
raising its price target to 360, saying
benefits from AI are still in the early
stages. Barclays also upping its target
to 360. The firm saying Alphabet's AI
story is in its full flex mode. And
finally, JP Morgan raising its price
target on the tech chart to 395. The
firm believing the doubling of capex
comes from a position of strength. The
stock is down right now by 4%. It's
quite a move in the pre-market.
>> Yeah, especially given the capex that
the capital uh the market capitalization
of a of a share like this. Look, right
now the market is not rewarding capital
expenditure. It is important to note
though, Alphabet is up 66% in the past
12 months. So this decline looks like
peanuts compared to the 17% decline that
you're seeing in the likes of uh AMD. So
it it's it's all within perspective
nonetheless. It is notable.
>> And that's that futures down by 0.8%.
That's the big story in financial
markets. Want to head over to Frankfurt,
Germany. The ECB with a rate decision
just moments ago. Lizzie Burton has the
number. Hey Lizzie.
>> Hi John. And yeah, the ECB has held
rates as expected by traders and
economists as they're expected to, not
just this year, but next year as well.
Officials saying that they're in a good
place when it comes to the economy.
Let's see if they hold up that line at
the press conference with Christine
Lagard in just under half an hour's
time. But they have reiterated the
language that they're not pre-committing
to a particular rate path, that they're
going to be data dependent when it comes
to making these decisions. If you
remember, the fourth quarter GDP print
was better than expected. So that really
gave officials cover to stand pat here,
John. And you'll remember that there was
all of that hype about hikes towards the
end of last year, started by comments
from Isabelle Schnarble. The market
latched on to it, but it's faded away
because you've had inflation
undershooting the target, euro strength
actually touching 120 last week, and
then of course the tariff threats from
President Trump over Greenland. Since
all of those things appear to be
temporary, the inflation undershoot
thought to be temporary at least, the
euro rally fading somewhat and President
Trump walking back his threats. What
they want is to keep full optionality.
That's what officials have been saying
to me and that's what it appears they've
done today.
>> Lizzie, can we finish on one of those
things you mentioned? Just unpack the
move in the euro briefly through 120
euro dollar this morning at 11799. There
was one central bank official on the
governing council out of Austria. the
push back a little bit after we drifted
past 120 in the past few weeks. Lizzie,
unlike Chairman Pal in the news
conference last week, will President
Lagard engage with the conversation
about the FX channel?
>> She's certainly going to be asked about
it. The Bank of France Governor Franis
Dallo was asked about it and he said
that the currency moves are a factor in
the monetary policym and if you go back
to comments last July uh the vice
president Luis Gindos said that 120 is
the level that makes policym more
complicated and as you say they went
through that level. The problem is that
when you have such euro strength, of
course, it could dampen exports. It
could make that inflation undershoot
more persistent, but I'm sure the way
that Christine Lagard is going to frame
this is they will mind what happens with
the euro. They're not targeting it
directly, but they but it they see it as
a channel that perhaps could affect the
inflation
path and therefore they keep it in mind
when they're setting rates.
>> Lizzy with the latest in Frankfurt,
Germany. Lizzy, thank you. The ECB
keeping rates unchanged to discuss Puja
Kamra of TV Securities joins us now for
more. Puja, welcome to the program. The
topic of the FX rate. This is something
the chairman pal batter batted away in
the news conference last week. Is it
something that Christine Lagard will
engage with?
>> Well, she will get lot of questions on
it, but I don't think that she will be
able to engage much on this front. I
think just to give some context when we
got our last forecast in December ECB
was looking for Euro USD to be around
116 for 2026 and 27 and we've already
broken that range and that really tells
you about March forecast. We'll need to
see more downgrade on headline inflation
at least.
>> Well, let's talk about headline
inflation. So, we've got inflation
basically around 2% in the Euro zone at
the moment. Puja when you look at the
balance of risk just how balanced are
the balance of risks around that 2%.
I think downside risk and that I think
that is key for markets right now.
Whether you look at inflation, whether
you look at uh sorry whether you look at
the currency, the oil market as well as
financial conditions, they are basically
moving making the inflation targets much
more risky. But what we are also seeing
on the other hand when it comes to
Europe is the domestic resilience factor
and that was actually is is visible in
the PMIs as well as growth indicators
which have been much stronger than what
we as economists have expected for 2025
on it. So I think that is one of the key
things that ECB likes to linger on the
core strength that is still there and
you know the German fiscal bazooka is
something that we will start seeing more
in 2026 as well as 2027. I'm guessing
Puja, this is going to be a pretty
uncomfortable news conference for
Christine Lagarde because a lot of the
questions have to do with things that
usually central banks don't like to
address. In the statement that the ECB
put out, they said that the outlook
uncertainty is mainly due to trade and
geopolitics. What is the ECB's reaction
function to say a currency that goes up
to 122, 123? I mean, there are all these
questions that ultimately they should be
answering. So what do you expect them to
say in terms of what the ECB's reaction
function is?
>> Unfortunately, we might just get a
boring answer saying that they don't
focus on FX. But I think we also need to
see the FX level with respect to how
conditions in Europe are right now
versus 2010 and 11 where you know the FX
was very key because we were in the
deflationary era. I think if you look at
even the ECB's review, they have very
vocally told us that they will be
they're less reactive to downside risk
to inflation but more towards upward
side. So as long as the domestic
resilience story is strong selling point
for ECB, they will try to avoid talking
about FX. But the moment that you know
gets dwindling or you see financial
conditions tighten because of maybe this
AI selloff I think that's where it's
hard for ECB to ignore all the market
indicators and you know that you can see
markets are you know by options trying
to play you know a possible cut by ECB
even though they do not think it's
likely
>> in the United States there's a feeling
and Kevin Walsh really articulated this
that you do get growth and it has been
strengthening but it's going to be
disinflationary because of the
technology and because of how artificial
intelligence is increasing efficiency.
Is there a similar type of discussion at
the ECB to uphold the economic growth
long enough to allow people to get jobs
at a time when otherwise they might be
losing them given the efficiencies the
artificial intelligence are creating.
>> So AI is definitely risk for all
countries. But one thing that we are
seeing in Europe which is basically
unique as compared to US as well as in
UK. Our labor market is still holding up
well and so is the service sector when
you look at the PMI. So maybe the AI
bubble has not reached Europe that big
as compared to what it is in US and UK.
So they are bit more sheltered but you
know it's all markets are connected
after all and I think if it affects US
it will affect Europe. So to say if e if
Europe if US has to go big on cuts I
don't think that ECB will not be able to
cut in that circumstances.
>> Fuja going back to Lisa's point though
with the statement saying the outlook is
uncertain due to trade and geopolitics
code word probably for Trump but what
about China? How does the ECB address
what is going on in terms of China
basically being a disinflationary force
onto the continent?
uh definitely is something that they are
looking at and especially given the fact
that we are seeing lot of China direct
indirect exports being you know being
sent to Europe that is one of the key
thing that they are looking at and you
know you can see that Europe
structurally is trying to actually get
out of just pure export-based economy to
more a investment as well as
infrastructure based economy. So I in in
short they know they cannot beat China
no matter what they do. The German
export industry is not as competitive
and so they are looking more to well
inside via the infrastructure and
investments.
>> Puja appreciate you weighing in. Thank
you. Puja Kamra of TD Securities
highlighting the downside risk to the
inflation outlook over at the Euro zone
which is interesting at a time when
Germany's ramping up government spending
because of a what you pointed out the
overcapacity out of China that the
Europeans now have to eat because the US
has put the walls up and b the fact that
we've seen the euro rally back up to
120. Now we've backed away as Lizzie
indicated but I do wonder and I imagine
if the ECB wanted to they can because
they often do. Will she engage in that
conversation in the news conference in
20 minutes time?
>> Some uh engagement or interfer uh
running some sort of interference just
verbally in terms of uh the currency. I
wonder how much they're growing
increasingly worried about the
disinflationary impulse because it's
coming from China. It's coming from the
currency and frankly it's coming from AI
and a lot of the investment it's going
to what military and other things that
don't necessarily have any kind of
inflationary pressure on the
environment.
>> Will we get a Kevin Walsh endorsement as
well from Christine Lagard? Governor
Bailey's just gone there, right?
>> Yeah. He welcomes the nomination of
Kevin.
>> Pretty long, isn't it?
>> Is this potentially a problem for uh
President Trump
>> Minister Carney that all of the
war if he's trying to shore up the MAGA
base? He has got a lot of endorsements
from establishment figures in the past
week. Coming up next on the program, the
latest round of jobless claims sets
across. We'll catch up with Abigail Watt
of UBS to break it down. That data is
just around the corner. If you're
counting down to the open and balance,
we all are 60 minutes away. We've got
futures down at session lows
negative0.6% on the S&P. On the NASDAQ
were lower by 0.8. Challenger job cuts
not a great read the worst start to the
year since 2009. Yields lower at the
front end of the curve by three basis
points. Twos to 352.
Jobless claim data just moments away.
Equity futures on the S&P negative by
0.6% on the NASDAQ 100 down by 0.8.
We're down by 0.6 on the Russell. Also
in the bond market rallying at the front
end of the curve. Yields down by about
three or four basis points now 35182.
Risk aversion really building in the
last 60 minutes or so off the back of
challenger job cuts data. The worst
start to the year since 09 with
additional data is Mike McKe. Good
morning Mike.
>> Well this isn't going to make anybody
happy either. A big jump in jobless
claims last week to 231,000.
The uh initial claims four-week moving
average is at 212 uh 212,000 and the
continuing claims number rises uh as
well to 1,844,000.
So jobless claims up last week. Now the
caveat, as I mentioned, there was a
caveat with the uh challenger numbers.
There's always a caveat with jobless
claims around this time of year because
we're still trying to get settled out
from the holidays. But, uh, if this is
any indication of where we're going, it
might be the start of a new trend that
you do want to worry about or at least
keep an eye on. Let's just mention
Challenger again. Uh, we lost 100 and
8,435
jobs in January, at least according to
the job cut announcements. That's the
most since 2009.
>> Mike McKe, thank you, sir. Mike McKe
breaking down jobless claims numbers
level and then change. As a level, 231
is not something you'd be typically
concerned about, but the change gets
your attention, particularly in the
context of the conversation we've
already had this morning about the
challenge of job cuts.
>> That really is the key. It sort of
builds on the news that we already had
been hearing, which was the greatest
number of announced job cuts for a month
of January going back to 2009. Then you
look at the jump up both in the initial
jobless claims and the continuing
claims, and it becomes significant. a
real question here about why these jobs
are being released or why people are
being laid off. People uh blaming
Amazon, UPS and DAO. One thing that Neil
do over at Renaissance Macro pointed out
is that when you look into the details
of the challenger job cuts, the reasons
for the layoffs are all talking about
closing, economic conditions,
restructuring, and loss of contract, not
necessarily artificial intelligence. So
challenging some of the more sanguin
reads on what we got early this morning.
>> Push it through the market, particularly
through bonds. We're down by four to
five basis points at the front end of
the curve through the belly of the
curve. Twos are down by four to five. At
350 just about holding on to that level
right now at 351. Abigail Ward of UBS
joins us around the table. Abigail good
morning. Good to see you. Starts to feel
a little bit more real. Is it more than
just a handful of companies? Is
something else happening here?
>> Yeah, look, I think um the one thing I
would caveat is when we look at the
initial claims data, we've been waiting
to start to see this beginning of a
seasonal uptick that you tend to see in
January. This is a period where you do
tend to see um initial claims starting
to move a little bit higher and we're a
little bit behind kind of where we have
been in previous years. So in previous
years you would have seen this eking
higher coming a little bit sooner. So I
think potentially the the kind of jump
higher today is is a little bit maybe of
catchup just you know we would have
typically be begun to see this move
higher sooner essentially. Um so I I
think this is something that we would
typically seasonally see. I think one of
the things that um I would note in the
kind of job cuts date data is obviously
we t they're very seasonal you do tend
to see a lot of kind of uh job cuts in
January um you know when we seasonally
adjust it it still is a relatively
elevated January increase though so I do
think that's uh important and I think
it's important you know as as we
mentioned just there you know this idea
of what is driving those job cuts I
think when we look at the distribution
of the reasons I mean we've had a lot of
questions from clients around how much
are you seeing AI feeding into the
weaker labor market and is this an AI
story? And you know, when you look at
those job cut numbers, it you know, AI
job cuts don't look to be leading the
reasons for for kind of why people are
are shedding like that.
>> We've seen some pretty bullish outlooks
for the next 12 months or so. Easing
fiscal policy, tax refunds, the rate
cuts we've already had, the massive
spending coming from big tech. Is it a
jobless GDP growth figure? What is it?
>> So, we are expecting that you see kind
of the labor market continue to look
relatively weak through the first half
of the year. We do think that the
unemployment rate will continue to eek
higher at this juncture. We have it
peaking in the summer. So we do have it
pushing up to 46 um by June and then we
actually think you see a little bit more
of a normalization, a little bit more of
a strength in the labor market. And I
think that's partly because one of the
things that we've seen through uh 2025
is a relatively narrowly driven growth.
And I think one of the questions is kind
of if we do see this kind of fiscal
policy support coming through, it's a
little bit more kind of distributed.
Does that then help broaden the base of
growth a little bit? Um, and I think
with that broadening, you could
potentially see a little bit more of a
broadening in labor demand because I
think one of the things you have seen in
the employment data is kind of
relatively narrow drivers. You know,
look at healthcare and social assistance
driving much of the gains in employment
uh through 2025. And I think um, you
know, we we would expect that you need
to see kind of a little bit of a
broadening out in terms of the base of
the strength of employment data. I'm
struck by the absolute numbers which
aren't that high in terms of the uh
jobless claims. At the same time, are
some of the job losses more punitive
this time around in a low hire, low fire
dynamic because it is so much harder to
get a new job?
>> Yeah, I think I think you are seeing um
I think when people talk about the labor
market, you know, we're talking about a
little bit of a lack of dynamism, right?
This idea that it is taking people
potentially a little bit longer to kind
of transfer back into the into the labor
force. I think that is part of the
story. But um I I think it in terms of
kind of the the low low hire low fire. I
do think you know we have seen the the
kind of pace of job cuts has been
running a little bit above kind of where
we were in 2019 already. Like I I'm not
sure that this is a big significant
shift in terms of the dynamic there. Um
I do think you're just seeing um general
weakness I would say in the labor market
when you look across the across the
metrics. Um that's kind of how I would
read the labor market. I'm not sure that
this uh this jump in claims this morning
or the the kind of new number from from
Challenger is a significant shift. I
think it's a continuation of a weakness
that we had already been seeing in the
data.
>> The noise is getting a lot louder partly
because we're not getting a lot of other
data points. We're not getting non-farm
payrolls until next week. We're going to
get CPI, but later in the week than we
normally would have gotten. How
differently are you looking at some of
the data that used to be the gold
standard going forward given how messy
it is and how difficult it is to really
understand this pivot point? Yeah, look,
I think there's um a lot of kind of
interpretation and care that needs to be
taken when looking at the data just now
in the US. I think one thing I would
note is you know the January employment
reports have always been a very
difficult thing to read. Um you know you
have the benchmarking process taking
place. Um you have new methodologies
being brought in for various components
and in particular this year the residual
net birth death adjustment which is a
big part of kind of what actually is
adding jobs in the in the figures is
being revised and that methodology is
going to change. So I think it's very
difficult to get a good read on the
labor market. I think from a January
employment report and I think this one
could be one in particular that is is
hard to kind of carry forward. And then
I think you know if we think about the
the uh inflation data you know I think
one of the things we've seen there is
certainly that you've seen a a shift
higher in you know the number of
amputations that are having to be done
um and you're also seeing a shift higher
in the number of series that the BLS are
not able to publish. So uh because they
don't have sufficient data so I do think
there are sampling issues that are
taking place in the inflation data as
well and then you add on top of that the
government shutdown right so I think I
think there's a lot of difficulty in
reading I think the trends um but I I I
don't think it's to say that it's not
useful or it should be dismissed I just
think you have to kind of look at trends
right you have to look over a longer
period you have to look in in more
detail I think and and kind of really
read the data with care um maybe more
than you used to
>> Abigail thank you for breaking it down
Thank you very much Abigail W there of
UBS following the wrong kind of upside
surprise on jobless claims 231 the
estimate 212 the previous number 209
with an update on stories worldwide
including that and more with your
Bloomberg brief is Vonyie Quinn hey
Vonyie hey John yeah recapping the data
we just got US jobless claims coming in
hotter than expected last week at
231,000 that was well above expectations
and marks an overall increase of 22,000
from the previous week continuing claims
coming in at just about $1.84 84 million
and that was just under estimates. And
recapping today's central bank
decisions, the ECB leaving its benchmark
policy rate unchanged at 2% for a fifth
straight meeting. That was widely
expected. Elsewhere, the Bank of England
also held rates steady in a split 54
decision. The bank's forecast showed
inflation returning to the 2% target in
April and then falling below for much of
2027.
Bitcoin has slumped below $70,000.
That's falling more than 42% now from
its peak last October. According to data
compiled by Bloomberg, investors have
pulled out more than $272 million out of
US listed Bitcoin exchange traded funds
this week. The crypto market has lost
over a trillion dollars in value since
its October peak. And that is your
Bloomberg brief, John.
>> Hey Vonnie, thank you. Crazy start to
the year in financial markets. Equities
near session lows down by 0.5%. We'll
break down some of the massive moves
we've seen in software stocks with Abby
Yoda of JP Morgan Private Bank up next
on a program live from New York. You're
watching Bloomberg TV.
The opening bow just around the corner.
Equity futures pulling back by 0.5% on
the S&P 500. The NASDAQ down by 0.7,
bouncing just a little bit, but you know
the story of the last week or so.
Hyperscalers continuing to report
massive AI spending as software stocks
get absolutely hammered. Abby Yoda of JP
Morgan private bank saying capex growth
will likely continue during this period
and beyond both to improve model
accuracy and then to sustain user
traffic. Abby joins us now for more.
Abby, good morning.
>> Good morning.
>> Let's talk about these moves. You've got
some great stats. Is this crash level
stuff in some of these names?
>> I mean, this is remarkable to your
point. I mean, there are so many
superlatives that we could go through in
terms of oversoldness like, and I think
the biggest one that stands out to me is
two years ago, software was the largest
industry in the S&P 500 and is now the
fourth largest at less than 10% of the
index, which is just remarkable. And I
think, you know, it's a broad-based move
and some of it is justified, right? like
but there is a sentiment overhang just
generally speaking and some things are
just being thrown out in you know in
conjunction with and might not be
justified in our view. Um, but it's very
very tricky and it you have to be very
picky in terms of your exposure when
you're thinking about going in. And that
doesn't mean that sentiment is going to
change overnight, right? We're going to
need to see some proof of revenue
acceleration from some of these
companies to get a validation that it is
worth stepping back in.
>> The narrative has changed so quickly. If
you think about where we were 12 months
ago, we discussed this earlier. Google
was dead.
>> Google's now $1.5 trillion bigger. And
now at the start of 26, software is
dead. Is this narrative going to move
just as quickly?
>> Well, that's the thing. I think there's
this element of leaprogging, right? It's
not even just like semis versus
software. It's like which camp are you
in in terms of your exposure in terms of
like which you know private market or
private company are you most exposed to?
And I think that's going to change,
right? Because these models are going to
leapfrog. But it is interesting that
this spend is increasing to at the rate
that we're seeing, right? I think
there's an element of okay, and there's
always been this element of the big guys
can compete because they have the
capital to do it. But this is just
becoming astronomical in terms of the
numbers and the change and it's just
becoming very evident that there needs
to be this continued spend. And earlier
in the week when semis were under
pressure, we were kind of like as a team
think why is this happening? It is very
clear to us that spend needs to increase
and from an infrastructure standpoint
that should benefit these semiconductor
companies.
>> There is a theory that if you have this
kind of spending it's throwing good
money after bad and at a certain point
it's all going to come crashing down and
it's not going to necessarily lead to
the same kind of profitability as it has
in the past. You reject that. You think
that actually this just uh leads to even
more capital expenditure down the line.
Why?
>> I mean luckily I mean I think I I trust
these decision makers to a certain
extent, right? they're really the ones
at the hands of this and know what's
happening and know how transformational
this is. I think there's probably, you
know, a happy medium in terms of like
the disruption it causes from a jobs
perspective. But I do think that they're
just going to need to continue to build
upon this, you know, the the
productivity, the, you know, the
capabilities of these models. If the
fear is that it's going to be as
prolific and disruptive as it is, then I
feel like there just has to be more
money that goes behind it, right? It's
only been 3 years. It can't just happen,
you know, overnight. It feels like
>> how as an investor do you decide which
management teams at different tech
companies are spending this money wisely
and spending this money in a pretty I
don't know prolific and unnecessarily so
way.
>> I think you know historically what you
would do is you would look at past you
know and precedent of how dollars have
been spent. Has it been productive? And
I think there's an extrapolation there.
But then again at the end of the day I
think that narrative has kind of shifted
too because some of those companies that
had historically misspent you know
billions of dollars are showing real ROI
on this right so there is an element of
okay you know you can use past this
prologue and use it to think about how
you can maybe judge the dollars that are
being spent and I think that no matter
what all of these companies are going to
spend some of this money unproductively
like that's part of probably this
buildout but I do think you know seeing
that ROI seeing the different business
models that are benefiting is changing
the narrative around okay in the past
maybe this company is missspent but now
it seems like they're spending correctly
they're right sizing and you're also
seeing a return on investment already
>> you say you're getting all these
questions about software from clients
what if anthropic posts something about
I don't know editing a book
>> what is going to be potentially the next
leg to fall could we see more of this
happening in the market
>> well that's the thing I mean it it it
started obviously with software and you
know the business servicesoriented
companies because it seemed like it was
in the legal realm and you know and the
consulting realm let's call it but it
spreads so much wider so you know I stay
very close to the healthcare space and
that it spread to you know contract
research organizations within healthcare
right 10% down on that day too so it's
spreading beyond that and that's the
kind of the point on sentiment right
they're trying to dispute a negative
right that's very very difficult and it
takes a very long time to do that and
again like I I don't know I think you're
going to have to basically wait you know
it feels like Deep Seek and Liberation
Day are happening at the same time right
now. And and so I think
>> they had a baby.
>> Yeah. And then in one month and then um
and so and what really helped get us
through those downturns last year was
getting to earning season and seeing a
real, you know, enhancement in terms of
what they were doing from a
profitability perspective. I think
that's probably going to be the same
case this year.
>> Which sectors are you more comfortable
in? We came into the new year and I
think you added industrials into the mix
as well. Stayed with financials. What
are you more comfortable in at the
moment? I mean, I think there's an
overhang in financials right now as it
relates to a regulatory perspective. If
you do have, you know, this really, you
know, focus on affordability going into
the midterms, we have this, you know,
floating 10% credit card cap that I
think has really weighed on what was
otherwise pretty good earnings, right?
You know, it was kind of, you know,
completely dismissed at that point. Um,
but you did get some news last night
that the stress capital buffer for these
banks is going to remain the same. I
think that's a net positive um as we
move through the year in terms of the
deregulatory agenda and if this really
is going to be you you're seeing all of
these cyclical sectors do really well
you know with this cyclical upswing and
this M&A cycle and this you know
industrial capex like who's going to
fund that that's going to be the banks
right so I do think there's a lot of
tailwinds that come through in terms of
the financial sector as well
>> it's good to see you
>> you too
>> hold on tightly we got more to go this
is quite a ride another 11 months
>> deepsek liberation day what else we to
put in there. I mean, it's been it's
been a long year already.
>> Abby Yoda of JP Morgan Private Bank.
Abby, thanks again. Thank you very much.
Welcome to the program, everyone. If
you're just tuning in, counting you down
to the open and bell about 40 minutes
away. We've got equity futures near
session lows negative 610 of 1%. The ECB
news conference is underway in
Frankfurt, Germany. Christine Lagard has
taken to the podium. So, let's take a
listen to what she's got to say. center.